The Project Gutenberg EBook of The King James Bible


**********************************************************************
EBOOK (#10) WAS ONE OF PROJECT GUTENBERG'S EARLY FILES PRODUCED AT A
TIME WHEN PROOFING METHODS AND TOOLS WERE NOT WELL DEVELOPED. THERE IS
AN IMPROVED EDITION OF THIS TITLE WHICH MAY VIEWED AT EBOOK http://www.gutenberg.org/files/10900/10900-h/10900-h.htm
(There is no text file for this ebook)
**********************************************************************


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The King James Bible

Release Date: August, 1989 [EBook #10]
[Most recently updated: October 15, 2020]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE KING JAMES BIBLE ***














The Old Testament of the King James Version of the Bible




The First Book of Moses:  Called Genesis


1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upn the face of the
waters.

1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and tt.

1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the lthe darkness.

1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he cht.
And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6 And God shere be a firmament in the midst of the waters,
and let it divide the m the waters.

1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters 
under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament:
a so.

1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and there the second day.

1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven d together
unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so. God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of
the watee Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11 And God said, Let the eartrth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit aind, whose seed is
in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12 And brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after
his kind, and the tg fruit, whose seed was in itself, after
his kind: and God saw that it
1:13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14 And Got there be lights in the firmament of the heaven
to divide the day frot; and let them be for signs, and for
seasons, and for days, and years let them be for lights in
the firmament of the heaven to give light urth: and it was
so.

1:16 And God made two great lights; the greater le the day,
and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars a And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light
upon th 1:18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and
to divide the lthe darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19 And the evening and  were the fourth day.

1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth a the moving
creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the ee
open firmament of heaven.

1:21 And God created great whales, and ev creature that
moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, aftend,
and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill
the wat seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23 And the evening and t were the fifth day.

1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the creature after
his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of theer his
kind: and it was so.

1:25 And God made the beast of the earth kind, and cattle
after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26 And God said, Let n in our image, after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over thf the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over, and over
every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27 Soated man in his own image, in the image of God created
he him; male aned he them.

1:28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruultiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion
ovesh of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every
living thieth upon the earth.

1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth, and every, in the which
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall b1:30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air,
an thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is
life, I have givreen herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31 And God saw every thing that e, and, behold, it was
very good. And the evening and the morning were day.

2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the hem.

2:2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; ed on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3 And Go the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that
in it he had rested is work which God created and made.

2:4 These are the generations of ns and of the earth when
they were created, in the day that the LORD Ge earth and the
heavens, 2:5 And every plant of the field before it waarth,
and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God hadd it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the
groun there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole
face of th2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
breathes nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living
soul.

2:8 And od planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he
put the man whom hed.

2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree thasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the
midgarden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

2:10 And a river  Eden to water the garden; and from thence
it was parted, and became iheads.

2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compassele land of Havilah, where there is gold; 2:12 And the gold of that
lan there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

2:13 And the name of the secons Gihon: the same is it that
compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

2e name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which
goeth toward t Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.

2:15 And the LORD God toand put him into the garden of
Eden to dress it and to keep it.

2:16 RD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the
garden thou may eat: 2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, thou sha of it: for in the day that thou
eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be
alone; I wil an help meet for him.

2:19 And out of the ground the LORD God formedst of the
field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adamt he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living
creatures the name thereof.

2:20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to th the air,
and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not elp meet for him.

2:21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall um, and he
slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh hereof; 2:22 And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made
and brought her unto the man.

2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of and flesh of my
flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was takMan.

2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and ave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

2:25 And they were bonaked, the man and his wife, and were not
ashamed.

3:1 Now the serpen subtil than any beast of the field which
the LORD God had made. And hn, Yea, hath God said,
Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?  e woman said
unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees ofn:
3:3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the gardeh said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest
ye diethe serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 3:5
For God hat in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall
be opened, and ye s gods, knowing good and evil.

3:6 And when the woman saw that the trhat
it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one
 of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto
her husband wit he did eat.

3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew
were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves
a8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in
ththe day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the
presence of the amongst the trees of the garden.

3:9 And the LORD God called unto Adid unto him, Where art
thou?  3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in t and I was
afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

3:11 And he told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten
of the tree, whereof ed thee that thou shouldest not eat?
3:12 And the man said, The woman gavest to be with me, she
gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

3:13 An God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
done? And the wo The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

3:14 And the LORD God said upent, Because thou hast done
this, thou art cursed above all cattle, avery beast of the
field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt ll the
days of thy life: 3:15 And I will put enmity between thee and tand between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head,
and thou se his heel.

3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thyd
thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy
dl be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

3:17 And unto Adam ecause thou hast hearkened unto the voice
of thy wife, and hast eaten e, of which I commanded thee,
saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursedound for thy sake;
in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy  Thorns
also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalterb of the field; 3:19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
eturn unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for
dust thou arto dust shalt thou return.

3:20 And Adam called his wife’s name Evehe was the mother
of all living.

3:21 Unto Adam also and to his wife RD God make coats of
skins, and clothed them.

3:22 And the LORD God sld, the man is become as one of us, to
know good and evil: and now, leforth his hand, and take also
of the tree of life, and eat, and live f:23 Therefore the
LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to ground
from whence he was taken.

3:24 So he drove out the man; and het the east of the garden
of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which ry way, to keep
the way of the tree of life.

4:1 And Adam knew Eve hiand she conceived, and bare Cain, and
said, I have gotten a man from t4:2 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of
sheen was a tiller of the ground.

4:3 And in process of time it came to pCain brought of the
fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

4: he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of
the fat thereofLORD had respect unto Abel and to his
offering: 4:5 But unto Cain and ring he had not respect.
And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance  And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy
countllen?  4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be
accepted? and if thout well, sin lieth at the door. And unto
thee shall be his desire, and t rule over him.

4:8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it cas, when
they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his bro slew him.

4:9 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brotheraid, I know not: Am I my brother’s keeper?  4:10 And he said, What
hone? the voice of thy brother’s blood crieth unto me from
the groundnd now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her
mouth to hy brother’s blood from thy hand; 4:12 When thou
tillest the ground,not henceforth yield unto thee her
strength; a fugitive and a vagabondou be in the earth.

4:13 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment i than I can
bear.

4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from of the
earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugit vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one
thathall slay me.

4:15 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever sleance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark
upon Cany finding him should kill him.

4:16 And Cain went out from the prese LORD, and dwelt in the
land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

4:17 And Cais wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he
builded a city, ande name of the city, after the name of his
son, Enoch.

4:18 And unto Eborn Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and
Mehujael begat Methusael: and  begat Lamech.

4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of ts Adah,
and the name of the other Zillah.

4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: hfather of such as dwell in tents,
and of such as have cattle.

4:21 Anther’s name was Jubal: he was the father of all such
as handle the hrgan.

4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of everer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

4:23 Ansaid unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice;
ye wives of Lamecn unto my speech: for I have slain a man to
my wounding, and a young murt.

4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy anld.

4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and calledth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead
of Abel,in slew.

4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he came Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

5:1 This ok of the generations of Adam. In the day that God
created man, in the of God made he him; 5:2 Male and female
created he them; and blessed  called their name Adam, in the
day when they were created.

5:3 And Aan hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his
own likeness, and  image; and called his name Seth: 5:4 And
the days of Adam after he han Seth were eight hundred years:
and he begat sons and daughters: 5:5  days that Adam lived
were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 5:7 And
Seth liv he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daugh And all the days of Seth were nine
hundred and twelve years: and he dAnd Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 5:10 And Enos lived
aftat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons
and daughterd all the days of Enos were nine hundred and
five years: and he died.
Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 5:13 And
Cainan livedbegat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years,
and begat sons and dau14 And all the days of Cainan were
nine hundred and ten years: and he 5 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 5:16
And lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty
years, and begat aughters: 5:17 And all the days of
Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninet years: and he died.

5:18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two ye begat
Enoch: 5:19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred  begat sons and daughters: 5:20 And all the days of Jared were nine
huy and two years: and he died.

5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five yeaat Methuselah: 5:22
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselandred
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:23 And all the days of Enhree hundred sixty and five years: 5:24 And Enoch walked with
God: andt; for God took him.

5:25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and s, and begat
Lamech.

5:26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech ed eighty
and two years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:27 And all thethuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

5:28 Alived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a
son: 5:29 And he caame Noah, saying, This same shall comfort
us concerning our work and t hands, because of the ground
which the LORD hath cursed.

5:30 And La after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five
years, and begat sonhters: 5:31 And all the days of Lamech
were seven hundred seventy and s: and he died.

5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah be Ham,
and Japheth.

6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiplce of the
earth, and daughters were born unto them, 6:2 That the sons 
the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives ofe.

6:3 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man,e also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty
years.

6re giants in the earth in those days; and also after that,
when the socame in unto the daughters of men, and they bare
children to them, thee mighty men which were of old, men of
renown.

6:5 And God saw that ts of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thos heart was only evil
continually.

6:6 And it repented the LORD that e man on the earth, and it
grieved him at his heart.

6:7 And the LORDll destroy man whom I have created from the
face of the earth; both mast, and the creeping thing, and
the fowls of the air; for it repentethave made them.

6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

6:9 the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect
in his generd Noah walked with God.

6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, anh.

6:11 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was fillolence.

6:12 And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corru flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13 And God said unto Nnd of all flesh is come before me;
for the earth is filled with violen them; and, behold, I
will destroy them with the earth.

6:14 Make thef gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the
ark, and shalt pitch it without with pitch.

6:15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make  length
of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fi, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16 A window shalt thou make t and in a cubit shalt thou
finish it above; and the door of the ark shset in the side
thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt tt.

6:17 And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
eestroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under
heaven; aning that is in the earth shall die.

6:18 But with thee will I establinant; and thou shalt come
into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wihy sons’ wives
with thee.

6:19 And of every living thing of all fle every sort shalt
thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with theall be
male and female.

6:20 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattleir kind, of
every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of e
shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt
gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did
he.

7:1 And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the
ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male
and his female: and of beass that are not clean by two, the male and
his female.

7:3 Of fowls al air by sevens, the male and the female; to
keep seed alive upon the f the earth.

7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have
madestroy from off the face of the earth.

7:5 And Noah did according un the LORD commanded him.

7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when of waters was
upon the earth.

7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and, and his sons’ wives
with him, into the ark, because of the waters d.

7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowlevery thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9 There went in two
and twh into the ark, the male and the female, as God had
commanded Noah.

7came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the
flood were upon 

7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second monthteenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains
of the groken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:12 And the rain wasearth forty days and forty nights.

7:13 In the selfsame day entered Nem, and Ham, and Japheth,
the sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife, and thees of his sons
with them, into the ark; 7:14 They, and every beast aftd,
and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that
 earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind,
every bird of evAnd they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all
flesh, whehe breath of life.

7:16 And they that went in, went in male and femalflesh, as
God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

7:17 And twas forty days upon the earth; and the waters
increased, and bare up td it was lift up above the earth.

7:18 And the waters prevailed, and eased greatly upon the
earth; and the ark went upon the face of the wa19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the
hithat were under the whole heaven, were covered.

7:20 Fifteen cubits u the waters prevail; and the mountains
were covered.

7:21 And all fleat moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and
of cattle, and of beast, ancreeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man: 7:22 All iostrils was the
breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.d every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face
of the oth man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the
fowl of the heav they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah
only remained alive, and were with him in the ark.

7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earred and fifty
days.

8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thil the
cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to passearth, and the waters asswaged; 8:2 The fountains also of the deep
ands of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was
restrained; 8:3ters returned from off the earth
continually: and after the end of thend fifty days the
waters were abated.

8:4 And the ark rested in the sh, on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
e waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the
tenth monfirst day of the month, were the tops of the
mountains seen.

8:6 And  pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the
window of the arkd made: 8:7 And he sent forth a raven,
which went forth to and fro, unters were dried up from off
the earth.

8:8 Also he sent forth a dove to see if the waters were
abated from off the face of the ground; 8:9 ve found no rest
for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him ik, for
the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put for, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

8:10 And he t other seven days; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark; 8e dove came in to him in the evening;
and, lo, in her mouth was an olickt off: so Noah knew that
the waters were abated from off the earth.
he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;
which returnein unto him any more.

8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth ayear, in the
first month, the first day of the month, the waters were om
off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and lookedold, the face of the ground was dry.

8:14 And in the second month, onn and twentieth day of the
month, was the earth dried.

8:15 And God s Noah, saying, 8:16 Go forth of the ark, thou,
and thy wife, and thy sy sons’ wives with thee.

8:17 Bring forth with thee every living ths with thee, of
all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every ching
that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in t and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18 And Noah went foris sons, and his wife, and his sons’
wives with him: 8:19 Every beasreeping thing, and every
fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth,ir kinds, went
forth out of the ark.

8:20 And Noah builded an altar uRD; and took of every clean
beast, and of every clean fowl, and offereerings on the
altar.

8:21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and thd in his
heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man’sr
the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; neither wil smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

8:22 While the eaeth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, ad night shall not cease.

9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and sthem, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2 And theou and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
of the earth, and uphe air, upon all that moveth
upon the earth, and upon all the fishes onto your hand are
they delivered.

9:3 Every moving thing that liveth eat for you; even as the
green herb have I given you all things.

9:4 with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat.

rely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of
every bea require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of
every man’s brotI require the life of man.

9:6 Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man s blood be shed: for in
the image of God made he man.

9:7 And you, be l, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in
the earth, and multiply the And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9 And
I,establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after
you; 9:10 Andy living creature that is with you, of the
fowl, of the cattle, and ofst of the earth with you; from
all that go out of the ark, to every be earth.

9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shallbe cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall
there any flood to destroy the earth.

9:12 And God said, This is the token of tt which I make
between me and you and every living creature that is wir
perpetual generations: 9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shatoken of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14 And it shall come when I bring a cloud over the earth,
that the bow shall be seen in the15 And I will remember my
covenant, which is between me and you and evg creature of all
flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood tall
flesh.

9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that
I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living
creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17 And Godsaid unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which
I have estableen me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:18 And the sons of Noant forth of the ark, were Shem, and
Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the fCanaan.

9:19 These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth
overspread.

9:20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and helanted a vineyard:
9:21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; andwas uncovered
within his tent.

9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saedness of his father,
and told his two brethren without.

9:23 And SheJapheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their
shoulders, and wend, and covered the nakedness of their
father; and their faces were bac they saw not their father’s
nakedness.

9:24 And Noah awoke from hind knew what his younger son had
done unto him.

9:25 And he said, Curaan; a servant of servants shall he be
unto his brethren.

9:26 And heessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be
his servant.

9:27  enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of
Shem; and Canaan his servant.

9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fi

9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and

10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, a: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2 The sons of Japhr, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4 And theavan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and
Dodanim.

10:5 By these were  of the Gentiles divided in their lands;
every one after his tongue, a families, in their nations.

10:6 And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizrut, and Canaan.

10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabaamah,
and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:8 gat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

10:9 He was a mter before the LORD: wherefore it is said,
Even as Nimrod the mighty he the LORD.

10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Eread, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

10:11 Out of that land went fo, and builded Nineveh, and the
city Rehoboth, and Calah, 10:12 And Resn Nineveh and Calah:
the same is a great city.

10:13 And Mizraim begad Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
10:14 And Pathrusim, and Casluhi came Philistim,) and
Caphtorim.

10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his firHeth, 10:16 And the
Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 10:1 Hivite,
and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 10:18 And the Arvadite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the
Canaanites spread0:19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest
tnto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and
Admah, and Zeboto Lasha.

10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, aftengues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:21 Unto Shem alsoer of all the children of Eber, the
brother of Japheth the elder, evenere children born.

10:22 The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and nd Lud,
and Aram.

10:23 And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Ge Mash.

10:24 And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

10:25 Aer were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for
in his days was  divided; and his brother’s name was Joktan.

10:26 And Joktan begatand Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and
Jerah, 10:27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, , 10:28 And Obal, and
Abimael, and Sheba, 10:29 And Ophir, and Havilahb: all these
were the sons of Joktan.

10:30 And their dwelling was fr as thou goest unto Sephar a
mount of the east.

10:31 These are the sm, after their families, after their
tongues, in their lands, after ths.

10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their
genen their nations: and by these were the nations divided
in the earth afood.

11:1 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they
found a pl land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

11:3 And they said one to anot, let us make brick, and burn
them thoroughly. And they had brick for slime had they for
morter.

11:4 And they said, Go to, let us build usd a tower, whose
top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name,e
scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

11:5 And the LORn to see the city and the tower, which the
children of men builded.

1e LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all
one language they begin to do: and now nothing will be
restrained from them, which imagined to do.

11:7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their that
they may not understand one another’s speech.

11:8 So the LOR them abroad from thence upon the face of
all the earth: and they leftild the city.

11:9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because id
there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did tatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

11:10 These are thes of Shem: Shem was an hundred years
old, and begat Arphaxad two yearse flood: 11:11 And Shem
lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred yeagat sons and
daughters.

11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty yeargat Salah: 11:13
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:14 And Salah lived thirty yeagat Eber: 11:15 And Salah
lived after he begat Eber four hundred and t, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty  begat Peleg: 11:17 And
Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred ars, and
begat sons and daughters.

11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, Reu: 11:19 And Peleg
lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine yeegat sons
and daughters.

11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, anrug: 11:21 And
Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven yeegat
sons and daughters.

11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and bega1:23 And Serug
lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begatdaughters.

11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Ter5
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years,
 sons and daughters.

11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Ar, and
Haran.

11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begNahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28 And Haran died before hierah in the land of his
nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29 And Abhor took them wives: the name of Abram’s wife
was Sarai; and the nam’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of
Haran, the father of Milcah, and th:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31 And Terah took Abra and Lot the son of Haran his son’s
son, and Sarai his daughter in ln Abram’s wife; and they
went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldeeinto the land of
Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

1ays of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah
died in Haran.the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,
and from th and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I
will shew thee: 12:l make of thee a great nation, and I
will bless thee, and make thy namand thou shalt be a
blessing: 12:3 And I will bless them that bless thrse him
that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth.

12:4 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot weim: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed
out of H5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all
tance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had
gotten in Hahey went forth to go into the land of Canaan;
and into the land of Caname.

12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem,plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

12:7 And the ed unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I
give this land: and therhe an altar unto the LORD, who
appeared unto him.

12:8 And he removednce unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,
and pitched his tent, havinn the west, and Hai on the east:
and there he builded an altar unto thcalled upon the name
of the LORD.

12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on d the south.

12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went
Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

12:ame to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,
that he said uhis wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a
fair woman to look upon: efore it shall come to pass, when
the Egyptians shall see thee, that tsay, This is his wife:
and they will kill me, but they will save thee :13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with
me e; and my soul shall live because of thee.

12:14 And it came to pass, Abram was come into Egypt, the
Egyptians beheld the woman that she war.

12:15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her befornd the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.

12:16 And he entreatedl for her sake: and he had sheep, and
oxen, and he asses, and menservaaidservants, and she asses,
and camels.

12:17 And the LORD plagued Phhis house with great plagues
because of Sarai Abram’s wife.

12:18 A called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast
done unto me? why not tell me that she was thy wife?  12:19
Why saidst thou, She is my s might have taken her to me to
wife: now therefore behold thy wife, tand go thy way.

12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him
away, and his wife, and all that he had.

13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he
had, and Lot with him, into the south.

13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

13:3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto
the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and
Hai; 13:4 Unto the place of the altar, which had make there at the
first: and there Abram called on the name of the 5 And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and
tentnd the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell
together:r substance was great, so that they could not dwell
together.

13:7 Ans a strife between the herdmen of Abram’s cattle and
the herdmen of attle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite
dwelled then in the land.

bram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me an between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be
brethren.

13:9 Is not and before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee,
from me: if thou wilt left hand, then I will go to the right;
or if thou depart to the right I will go to the left.

13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld in of Jordan,
that it was well watered every where, before the LORD dend Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt,
aunto Zoar.

13:11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12 Abr in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the
cities of the plain, an his tent toward Sodom.

13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and siore the LORD
exceedingly.

13:14 And the LORD said unto Abram, after tas separated from
him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the placeu art
northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: 13:15 For and which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for
everAnd I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a
man cathe dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered.

13:17 Ar through the land in the length of it and in the
breadth of it; for I  it unto thee.

13:18 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in of
Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORAnd it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar,
Arioch kinar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of
nations; 14:2 That thwar with Bera king of Sodom, and with
Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab mah, and Shemeber king of
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoarll these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is
the salt4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year
thd.

14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings tth him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the
Zuzims inthe Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 14:6 And the
Horites in their mount Selparan, which is by the wilderness.

14:7 And they returned, and came t, which is Kadesh, and
smote all the country of the Amalekites, and aorites, that
dwelt in Hazezontamar.

14:8 And there went out the king and the king of Gomorrah,
and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboie king of Bela
(the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them inof
Siddim; 14:9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal kinns, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar;
four kinge.

14:10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings d Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled
to the mo4:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their
nd went their way.

14:12 And they took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son in Sodom,
and his goods, and departed.

14:13 And there came one thated, and told Abram the Hebrew;
for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the rother of Eshcol, and
brother of Aner: and these were confederate with:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he
armed ed servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
eighteen, and pum unto Dan.

14:15 And he divided himself against them, he and his sernight, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the
le Damascus.

14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought 
brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

14:1king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from
the slaughteraomer, and of the kings that were with him, at
the valley of Shaveh, we king’s dale.

14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth brne: and
he was the priest of the most high God.

14:19 And he blessed aid, Blessed be Abram of the most high
God, possessor of heaven and ea And blessed be the most high
God, which hath delivered thine enemies and. And he gave him
tithes of all.

14:21 And the king of Sodom said  Give me the persons, and
take the goods to thyself.

14:22 And Abram he king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand
unto the LORD, the most higpossessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 That I will not take from a threa a shoelatchet, and
that I will not take any thing that is thine, lestldest say,
I have made Abram rich: 14:24 Save only that which the youn
eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol,
alet them take their portion.

15:1 After these things the word of the nto Abram in a
vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and tng
great reward.

15:2 And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give mless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 Anaid, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo,
one born in my hoe heir.

15:4 And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own
bowebe thine heir.

15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look nheaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he
sai, So shall thy seed be.

15:6 And he believed in the LORD; and he coun him for
righteousness.

15:7 And he said unto him, I am the LORD thathee out of Ur
of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit
it?  15:9d unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old,
and a she goat of thd, and a ram of three years old, and a
turtledove, and a young pigeon.d he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,
and laid  one against another: but the birds divided he not.

15:11 And when thme down upon the carcases, Abram drove them
away.

15:12 And when the ing down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram;
and, lo, an horror of great dal upon him.

15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy sbe
a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and
afflict them four hundred years; 15:14 And also that
nation, whom theyve, will I judge: and afterward shall they
come out with great substanAnd thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried
in a g.

15:16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: fouity of the Amorites is not yet full.

15:17 And it came to pass, that sun went down, and it was
dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burnit passed between
those pieces.

15:18 In the same day the LORD made a th Abram, saying,
Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the riverunto the
great river, the river Euphrates: 15:19 The Kenites, and the
, and the Kadmonites, 15:20 And the Hittites, and the
Perizzites, and ms, 15:21 And the Amorites, and the
Canaanites, and the Girgashites, ausites.

16:1 Now Sarai Abram’s wife bare him no children: and she hndmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

16:2 And Sarai said unto Aold now, the LORD hath restrained
me from bearing: I pray thee, go in id; it may be that I may
obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened te of Sarai.

16:3 And Sarai Abram’s wife took Hagar her maid the Egyter
Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to h Abram to be his wife.

16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceihen she saw
that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her e5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my
mahy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was
despised in hhe LORD judge between me and thee.

16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Be maid is in thine hand; do
to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai ly with her, she
fled from her face.

16:7 And the angel of the LORD fy a fountain of water in the
wilderness, by the fountain in the way to6:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai’s maid, whence camest thou? and whitheu go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

16:9 Ael of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress,
and submit thyseher hands.

16:10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multeed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

16:11 Ael of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with
child and shalt beand shalt call his name Ishmael; because
the LORD hath heard thy affli:12 And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man,
andn’s hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence
of all his 
16:13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou
Ge: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that
seeth me?  16:e the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold,
it is between Kadesh and B15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son’s name,
whicre, Ishmael.

16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hashmael to Abram.

17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, ted
to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me,rfect.

17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and willthee exceedingly.

17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked witng, 17:4
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt b of many nations.

17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abra name
shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee. I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations
of thee, shall come out of thee.

17:7 And I will establish my covenant betweeee and thy seed
after thee in their generations for an everlasting cov a
God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8 And I will give unnd to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all tCanaan, for an
everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9 id unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore,
thou, and thy thee in their generations.

17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall een me and you and
thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shalmcised.

17:11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; ande a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12 And he that is eid shall be circumcised among you,
every man child in your generations, born in the house, or
bought with money of any stranger, which is notd.

17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thyst needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your
flesh for ang covenant.

17:14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his 
not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath
y covenant.

17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, tot
call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16 And I will and give thee a son also of her: yea, I
will bless her, and she shallr of nations; kings of people
shall be of her.

17:17 Then Abraham fel face, and laughed, and said in his
heart, Shall a child be born unto an hundred years old?
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?nd Abraham
said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!  17:1said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt callIsaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an
everlasting cond with his seed after him.

17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard th, I have blessed
him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply hily;
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.t my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall
bear untohis set time in the next year.

17:22 And he left off talking with himwent up from Abraham.

17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and allborn in his
house, and all that were bought with his money, every malemen of Abraham’s house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin fsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24 And Abraham was ninety yead nine, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25 Ahis son was thirteen years old, when he was
circumcised in the flesh oskin.

17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael 17:27 And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought withthe stranger, were circumcised with him.

18:1 And the LORD appeared u the plains of Mamre: and he sat
in the tent door in the heat of the dd he lift up his eyes
and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: andaw them, he
ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself towound, 18:3 And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy
sight,away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 18:4 Let a little
water, I pray yd, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves
under the tree: 18:5 And I  a morsel of bread, and comfort
ye your hearts; after that ye shall pa therefore are ye come
to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou 
18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make
requickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes
upon the18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good,it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

18:8 And he took buttlk, and the calf which he had dressed,
and set it before them; and he the tree, and they
did eat.

18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sare? And he said,
Behold, in the tent.

18:10 And he said, I will certai unto thee according to the
time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shalon. And Sarah
heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

18:11 m and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it
ceased to be witer the manner of women.

18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself,er I am waxed
old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?  18:1LORD
said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of bear a child, which am old?  18:14 Is any thing too hard for
the LORD?e appointed I will return unto thee, according to
the time of life, anall have a son.

18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for said.
And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

18:16 And the men rose unce, and looked toward Sodom: and
Abraham went with them to bring themy.

18:17 And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing whic:18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
18:19 For I know hi will command his children and his
household after him, and they shallway of the LORD, to do
justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring um that which
he hath spoken of him.

18:20 And the LORD said, Because  Sodom and Gomorrah is
great, and because their sin is very grievous; ll go down
now, and see whether they have done altogether according tof
it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

18:22 And the mtheir faces from thence, and went toward
Sodom: but Abraham stood yet  LORD.

18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy eous with the wicked?  18:24 Peradventure there be fifty
righteous wity: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the
place for the fifty rightere therein?  18:25 That be far
from thee to do after this manner, to sghteous with the
wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wickee far
from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?  18:26RD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city,
then I wil the place for their sakes.

18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Beh have taken upon me
to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and asheeradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou
dethe city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there
forty and fiveot destroy it.

18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradere
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forte.

18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I wiPeradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I
will nof I find thirty there.

18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken uppeak unto the
LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. An, I
will not destroy it for twenty’s sake.

18:32 And he said, Oh leORD be angry, and I will speak yet
but this once: Peradventure ten shad there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for ten’s sake.

18:33 Awent his way, as soon as he had left communing with
Abraham: and Abrahunto his place.

19:1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and  the
gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bf with his face toward the ground; 19:2 And he said, Behold now,
my lon, I pray you, into your servant’s house, and tarry
all night, and wet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on
your ways. And they said, Nawill abide in the street all
night.

19:3 And he pressed upon them grethey turned in unto him,
and entered into his house; and he made them nd did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.

19:4 But before they the men of the city, even the men of
Sodom, compassed the house round, and young, all the people
from every quarter: 19:5 And they called und said unto him,
Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bout
unto us, that we may know them.

19:6 And Lot went out at the door, and shut the door after
him, 19:7 And said, I pray you, brethren, dokedly.

19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known many you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good
in your eese men do nothing; for therefore came they
under the shadow of my rood they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow
came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal
worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man,
even Lot, and came near to break the door.

19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house
to them, and shut to the door.

19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with
blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to
find the 
19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in
ly sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the
city, bringof this place: 19:13 For we will destroy this
place, because the cry o waxen great before the face of the
LORD; and the LORD hath sent us tot.

19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which marrughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD
will decity. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons
in law.

19:15 An morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,
saying, Arise, take thy thy two daughters, which are here;
lest thou be consumed in the iniquiity.

19:16 And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, an hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD
beul unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him
without the city.d it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,
that he sa for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay
thou in all the plai the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

19:18 And Lot said unto them, O my LORD: 19:19 Behold now,
thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, hast magnified thy
mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my I cannot
escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die: 1d now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one:
Oh, lete thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall
live.

19:21 An unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this
thing also, that  overthrow this city, for the which thou
hast spoken.

19:22 Haste thethither; for I cannot do anything till thou
be come thither. Therefore of the city was called Zoar.

19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth ntered into Zoar.

19:24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomotone and
fire from the LORD out of heaven; 19:25 And he overthrew thosnd all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that
whic the ground.

19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she pillar of salt.

19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the e he
stood before the LORD: 19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomoroward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke
of theent up as the smoke of a furnace.

19:29 And it came to pass, when God the cities of the plain,
that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot oudst of the
overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dw And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his
two dith him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt
in a cave, he andaughters.

19:31 And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father nd
there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the mannere earth: 19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we
will li, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:33 And they made their nk wine that night: and the
firstborn went in, and lay with her fatherrceived not when
she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:34 And it came the morrow, that the firstborn said unto
the younger, Behold, I lay yeith my father: let us make him
drink wine this night also; and go thouie with him, that we
may preserve seed of our father.

19:35 And they r father drink wine that night also: and the
younger arose, and lay wid he perceived not when she lay
down, nor when she arose.

19:36 Thus  the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

19:37 And the first a son, and called his name Moab: the
same is the father of the Moabithis day.

19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his nthe same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this
day.

20:1 Aourneyed from thence toward the south country, and
dwelled between Kadr, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, Sister: and
Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3 But Godbimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,
Behold, thou art but a for the woman which thou hast taken;
for she is a man’s wife.

20:4 ech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou
slay also a riion?  20:5 Said he not unto me, She is my
sister? and she, even she he, He is my brother: in the
integrity of my heart and innocency of my h done this.

20:6 And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that tthis in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from
sinnt me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7 Now therefore  man his wife; for he is a prophet, and
he shall pray for thee, and thve: and if thou restore her
not, know thou that thou shalt surely die,all that are
thine.

20:8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the mornined all his
servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the ore afraid.

20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, Whu
done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought n my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that
ought not 

20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou
hhis thing?  20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought,
Surely the fearnot in this place; and they will slay me for
my wife’s sake.

20:12 eed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my
father, but not the damy mother; and she became my wife.

20:13 And it came to pass, when Go to wander from my
father’s house, that I said unto her, This is thywhich thou
shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, sHe is my brother.

20:14 And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and mensed
womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah hi0:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where
i thee.

20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brothernd pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the
eyes, unt are with thee, and with all other: thus she was
reproved.

20:17 So Ad unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his
wife, and his maidservaney bare children.

20:18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombsuse of
Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham’s wife.

21:1 And the LORSarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto
Sarah as he had spoken.

2ah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at
the set time od had spoken to him.

21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son thatunto him,
whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4 And Abraham circumcisedaac being eight days old, as
God had commanded him.

21:5 And Abraham d years old, when his son Isaac was born
unto him.

21:6 And Sarah saih made me to laugh, so that all that hear
will laugh with me.

21:7 An, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should
have given childfor I have born him a son in his old age.

21:8 And the child grew, aned: and Abraham made a great
feast the same day that Isaac was weaned. Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born
unto Abrang.

21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman an: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even
wi
21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham’s sight because of
21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight
the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah
hath said untarken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy
seed be called.

21:13 An the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,
because he is thy seednd Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a
bottle and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,
and the child, and away: and she departed, and wandered in
the wilderness of Beersheba.
the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child
under one ofs.

21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way o a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the
child. And against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17 And God heard thethe lad; and the angel of God called
to Hagar out of heaven, and said What aileth thee, Hagar?
fear not; for God hath heard the voice of thee he is.

21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; foake him a great nation.

21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a ter; and she
went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad :20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the
wildernesse an archer.

21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mk him
a wife out of the land of Egypt.

21:22 And it came to pass at tthat Abimelech and Phichol the
chief captain of his host spake unto Abing, God is with thee
in all that thou doest: 21:23 Now therefore sweahere by God
that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, y
son’s son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thealt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24 Ansaid, I will swear.

21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of aater, which
Abimelech’s servants had violently taken away.

21:26 Anh said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neither
didst thou tell meyet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, them unto Abimelech;
and both of them made a covenant.

21:28 And Abrven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29 And Abimelech said un, What mean these seven ewe lambs
which thou hast set by themselves?  he said, For these seven
ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that tha witness unto
me, that I have digged this well.

21:31 Wherefore he c place Beersheba; because there they
sware both of them.

21:32 Thus tcovenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up,
and Phichol the chief chis host, and they returned into the
land of the Philistines.

21:33 A planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on
the name of the LORrlasting God.

21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines’ land 

22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt
Abrasaid unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2 And he sow thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee into  Moriah; and offer him there for
a burnt offering upon one of the mounh I will tell thee of.

22:3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning,ed his ass,
and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son,the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place
od had told him.

22:4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eye the
place afar off.

22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ith the ass;
and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come ag.

22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it u his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they
wenthem together.

22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, and
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the where is the lamb for a burnt offering?  22:8 And Abraham said, My
son provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they
went both of theer.

22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Ab an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his
son, him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his took the knife to slay
his son.

22:11 And the angel of the LORD callm out of heaven, and
said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou
any thing un now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy sonly son from me.

22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, ahind
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and am, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his
son.

Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is
said to tn the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

22:15 And the angel of the d unto Abraham out of heaven the
second time, 22:16 And said, By myselworn, saith the LORD,
for because thou hast done this thing, and hast thy son,
thine only son: 22:17 That in blessing I will bless thee, andg I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and
as the sandh is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess
the gate of his en18 And in thy seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed; becaast obeyed my voice.

22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, ane up and
went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

 it came to pass after these things, that it was told
Abraham, saying,Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy
brother Nahor; 22:21 Huz orn, and Buz his brother, and
Kemuel the father of Aram, 22:22 And CheHazo, and Pildash,
and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

22:23 And Bethuel begat these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,
Abraham’s brother.

22:24 And ne, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,
and Gaham, and Thahashhah.

23:1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: thhe years of the life of Sarah.

23:2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; thHebron in the land of
Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, andor her.

23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unt of Heth, saying, 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you:
give ession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my
dead out of my s5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:6
Healord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of
our sepulchr dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his
sepulchre, but that thoury thy dead.

23:7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the peo
land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8 And he communed with them, f it be your mind that I
should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me,at for me to
Ephron the son of Zohar, 23:9 That he may give me the cavelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as
much mons worth he shall give it me for a possession of a
buryingplace amongst:10 And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the
HittitAbraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even
of all that went gate of his city, saying, 23:11 Nay, my
lord, hear me: the field giveand the cave that is therein, I
give it thee; in the presence of the s people give I it thee:
bury thy dead.

23:12 And Abraham bowed down hore the people of the land.

23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the aude people of the
land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, h will
give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury mye.

23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:15 My lord,unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver;
what is thaxt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16 And Abraham hearkened n; and Abraham weighed to Ephron
the silver, which he had named in theof the sons of Heth,
four hundred shekels of silver, current money witrchant.

23:17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which wMamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees
th the field, that were in all the borders round about, were
made sure 2 Abraham for a possession in the presence of the
children of Heth, befat went in at the gate of his city.

23:19 And after this, Abraham buris wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same in the land of
Canaan.

23:20 And the field, and the cave that is thereade sure unto
Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons o24:1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had
baham in all things.

24:2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of  that ruled
over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my 
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the Goearth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the
daughters ofnites, among whom I dwell: 24:4 But thou shalt
go unto my country, andindred, and take a wife unto my son
Isaac.

24:5 And the servant said Peradventure the woman will not be
willing to follow me unto this landneeds bring thy son again
unto the land from whence thou camest?  24:6am said unto
him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither againORD God of heaven, which took me from my father’s house, and
from thdred, and which spake unto me, and that sware
unto me, saying, Unto thill I give this land; he shall send
his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from
thence.

24:8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou
shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

24:10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels o master, and
departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hanarose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

24:11 And he amels to kneel down without the city by a well
of water at the time ofing, even the time that women go out
to draw water.

24:12 And he said of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send
me good speed this day, and ss unto my master Abraham.

24:13 Behold, I stand here by the well of wthe daughters of
the men of the city come out to draw water: 24:14 And to
pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give
thy camelo: let the same be she that thou hast appointed
for thy servant Isaac;y shall I know that thou hast shewed
kindness unto my master.

24:15 A to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,
Rebekah came out,rn to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of
Nahor, Abraham’s brother, itcher upon her shoulder.

24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look gin, neither had
any man known her: and she went down to the well, andr
pitcher, and came up.

24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and sa I pray thee,
drink a little water of thy pitcher.

24:18 And she saidy lord: and she hasted, and let down her
pitcher upon her hand, and gak.

24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will drar thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

24:20 And she hastetied her pitcher into the trough, and ran
again unto the well to draw  drew for all his camels.

24:21 And the man wondering at her held his wit whether the
LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

24:22 Ame to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the
man took a golde of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets
for her hands of ten sheke of gold; 24:23 And said, Whose
daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee room in thy father’s
house for us to lodge in?  24:24 And she said I am the
daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto N25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender
enough to lodge in.

24:26 And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped t
24:27 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who
eft destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being
in the wayD led me to the house of my master’s brethren.

24:28 And the damsel told them of her mother’s house these
things.

24:29 And Rebekah har, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran
out unto the man, unto the we And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon
his sands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister,
saying, Thus an unto me; that he came unto the man; and,
behold, he stood by the cae well.

24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefot thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the
camelsnd the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and
gave srovender for the camels, and water to wash his feet,
and the men’s fere with him.

24:33 And there was set meat before him to eat: but he ll
not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.

24: said, I am Abraham’s servant.

24:35 And the LORD hath blessed my matly; and he is become
great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds,r, and gold,
and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.nd Sarah my master’s wife bare a son to my master when she was
old: im hath he given all that he hath.

24:37 And my master made me swear,hou shalt not take a wife
to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites land I dwell:
24:38 But thou shalt go unto my father’s house, and take a wife unto my son.

24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventurell not
follow me.

24:40 And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I  send his
angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a  son of my kindred, and of my father’s house: 24:41 Then shalt thou
rom this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if
they give notthou shalt be clear from my oath.

24:42 And I came this day unto the aid, O LORD God of my
master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way wh24:43
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass,the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me,
I pr little water of thy pitcher to drink; 24:44 And she say
to me, Both d and I will also draw for thy camels: let the
same be the woman whom tath appointed out for my master’s
son.

24:45 And before I had done ne heart, behold, Rebekah
came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder;nt down unto
the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me dri
thee.

24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shnd said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank,
andthe camels drink also.

24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughte? And she
said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor’s son, whom Milcah bam:
and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her han And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed
the LOf my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way
to take my mastther’s daughter unto his son.

24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly with my master, tell
me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the rd, or to the
left.

24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, Thoceedeth
from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.

24:51 bekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be
thy master’s fe, as the LORD hath spoken.

24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abervant heard their
words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to th4:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of
golent, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her
brother and to her cious things.

24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that wm,
and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said away unto my master.

24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let  abide with
us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.
 he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath
prospered my w away that I may go to my master.

24:57 And they said, We will call t and enquire at her
mouth.

24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unilt thou go with
this man? And she said, I will go.

24:59 And they seekah their sister, and her nurse, and
Abraham’s servant, and his mend they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our
sister, be thoer of thousands of millions, and let thy seed
possess the gate of thoste them.

24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upons, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went
his wand Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt
in the sy.

24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide:fted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.

24:64ah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she
lighted off the cam For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh
in to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master:
therefore she to and covered herself.

24:66 And the servant told Isaac all things thae.

24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and to, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was
comforted aother’s death.

25:1 Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name wa

25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, anand Shuah.

25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of DAsshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.

25:4 And the sons of Midian; Ephher, and Hanoch, and Abidah,
and Eldaah. All these were the children o

25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

25:6 But unto theconcubines, which Abraham had, Abraham
gave gifts, and sent them away s son, while he yet lived,
eastward, unto the east country.

25:7 And the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he
lived, an hundred tand fifteen years.

25:8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in aage, an
old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

2s sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of
Machpelah, in the fron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which
is before Mamre; 25:10 The fieraham purchased of the sons
of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sare.

25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blen Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.

25:12 Now these are ths of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom
Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s handunto Abraham: 25:13 And
these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, byes, according
to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajothar,
and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 25:14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 25and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 25:16 These are the sons
of Ishthese are their names, by their towns, and by their
castles; twelve prording to their nations.

25:17 And these are the years of the life ofan hundred and
thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and di
gathered unto his people.

25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shu before Egypt, as
thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presenis
brethren.

25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham’aham
begat Isaac: 25:20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebfe, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister
to Laban.

25:21 And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was
 the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife
conceived.

25:22hildren struggled together within her; and she said, If
it be so, why  And she went to enquire of the LORD.

25:23 And the LORD said unto heions are in thy womb, and two
manner of people shall be separated from; and the one
people shall be stronger than the other people; and the serve the younger.

25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfild, there
were twins in her womb.

25:25 And the first came out red, aike an hairy garment; and
they called his name Esau.

25:26 And after is brother out, and his hand took hold on
Esau’s heel; and his name  Jacob: and Isaac was threescore
years old when she bare them.

25:27 oys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the
field; and Jacobin man, dwelling in tents.

25:28 And Isaac loved Esau, because he dids venison: but
Rebekah loved Jacob.

25:29 And Jacob sod pottage: and from the field, and he was
faint: 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed mthee, with that
same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his naEdom.

25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.

25:32 Ad, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit
shall this birthrme?  25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to me
this day; and he sware unto himold his birthright unto
Jacob.

25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and plentiles; and he did
eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thuised his
birthright.

26:1 And there was a famine in the land, beside amine that
was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech k
Philistines unto Gerar.

26:2 And the LORD appeared unto him, and saidown into Egypt;
dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 26:3 Sohis
land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee,hy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the
oath are unto Abraham thy father; 26:4 And I will make thy
seed to multiplytars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed
all these countries; and i shall all the nations of the
earth be blessed; 26:5 Because that Abra my voice, and kept
my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my land Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 26:7 And the men of the place asked him
of hi he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She
is my wife; lestthe men of the place should kill me for
Rebekah; because she was fair on.

26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, thah king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw,
and, beholding with Rebekah his wife.

26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, surety she is
thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isnto
him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.

26:10 And Abimelech saidthis thou hast done unto us? one of
the people might lightly have lienwife, and thou shouldest
have brought guiltiness upon us.

26:11 And Aharged all his people, saying, He that toucheth
this man or his wife sly be put to death.

26:12 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and receivedme year an
hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.

26:13 And the man w and went forward, and grew until he
became very great: 26:14 For he hion of flocks, and
possession of herds, and great store of servants: alistines
envied him.

26:15 For all the wells which his father’s serigged in the
days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped tlled them with earth.

26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from usart much
mightier than we.

26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and pitcht in the valley of
Gerar, and dwelt there.

26:18 And Isaac digged agas of water, which they had digged
in the days of Abraham his father; flistines had stopped
them after the death of Abraham: and he called th after the
names by which his father had called them.

26:19 And Isaacts digged in the valley, and found there a
well of springing water.

2e herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac’s herdmen,
saying, The wate and he called the name of the well Esek;
because they strove with himnd they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he
called t it Sitnah.

26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another wellhat they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he
saithe LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful
in the land.
 he went up from thence to Beersheba.

26:24 And the LORD appeared untame night, and said, I am
the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for thee, and will
bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abrahe.

26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of tand pitched his tent there: and there Isaac’s servants digged a
wellhen Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his
friends,ol the chief captain of his army.

26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Whe ye to me, seeing ye
hate me, and have sent me away from you?  26:28 Aid, We saw
certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let thean oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a
covenae; 26:29 That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not
touched thee, anve done unto thee nothing but good, and have
sent thee away in peace: w the blessed of the LORD.

26:30 And he made them a feast, and they d drink.

26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one  and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in
peace.

26:32e to pass the same day, that Isaac’s servants came,
and told him cone well which they had digged, and said unto
him, We have found water.
 he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is
Beersheba unto

26:34 And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the
dBeeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the
Hittite: 26:re a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

27:1 And it came to pasen Isaac was old, and his eyes were
dim, so that he could not see, he u his eldest son, and said
unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Beh am I.

27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of 27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver
and thy go out to the field, and take me some venison; 27:4
And make me savourch as I love, and bring it to me, that I
may eat; that my soul may blefore I die.

27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. ent
to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.

27:6 And Rebeknto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy
father speak unto Esau r, saying, 27:7 Bring me venison, and
make me savoury meat, that I maybless thee before the LORD
before my death.

27:8 Now therefore, my so voice according to that which I
command thee.

27:9 Go now to the flo me from thence two good kids of
the goats; and I will make them savoufather, such as
he loveth: 27:10 And thou shalt bring it to thy fatheray
eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.

27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is
a hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 27:12 My father peradventure will
feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a
curse upon me, and not a blessing.

27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only
obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

27:14 And hend fetched, and brought them to his mother: and
his mother made savourch as his father loved.

27:15 And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her n Esau, which
were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her n:
27:16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his handsthe smooth of his neck: 27:17 And she gave the savoury meat
and the br she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.

27:18 And he came ather, and said, My father: and he said,
Here am I; who art thou, my s And Jacob said unto his
father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done as thou badest
me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, thamay
bless me.

27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou  it
so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought 
27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may
fmy son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.

27:22 And Jacob wentIsaac his father; and he felt him, and
said, The voice is Jacob’s vohe hands are the hands of Esau.

27:23 And he discerned him not, becaunds were hairy, as his
brother Esau’s hands: so he blessed him.

27:id, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.

27:25 And he said, ear to me, and I will eat of my son’s
venison, that my soul may blesnd he brought it near to him,
and he did eat: and he brought him wine nk.

27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kissn.

27:27 And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell oent, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as
the smeeld which the LORD hath blessed: 27:28 Therefore God
give thee of the aven, and the fatness of the earth, and
plenty of corn and wine: 27:29e serve thee, and nations bow
down to thee: be lord over thy brethren,hy mother’s sons bow
down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth blessed be he
that blesseth thee.

27:30 And it came to pass, as soon ad made an end of
blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out frsence of
Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunt1 And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his
father, ato his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his
son’s venison, thl may bless me.

27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thosaid, I
am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.

27:33 And Isaac trembled veryly, and said, Who? where is he
that hath taken venison, and brought ithave eaten of all
before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and hblessed.

27:34 And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried t and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me,
even mmy father.

27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and haty
thy blessing.

27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? forupplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and,
behold,th taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not
reserved a bless?  27:37 And Isaac answered and said unto
Esau, Behold, I have made hi, and all his brethren have I
given to him for servants; and with cornhave I sustained
him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?  27:3 said
unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless mee also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

27:39 Anis father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy
dwelling shall be thof the earth, and of the dew of heaven
from above; 27:40 And by thy swthou live, and shalt serve
thy brother; and it shall come to pass whent have the
dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.d Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his
father blessein his heart, The days of mourning
for my father are at hand; then wilbrother Jacob.

27:42 And these words of Esau her elder son were told : and
she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Bebrother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to
kil27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Laban
 to Haran; 27:44 And tarry with him a few days, until thy
brother’s  away; 27:45 Until thy brother’s anger turn away
from thee, and he ft which thou hast done to him: then I will
send, and fetch thee from t should I be deprived also of you
both in one day?  27:46 And Rebekah saac, I am weary of my
life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacobife of the
daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughtersand, what good shall my life do me?  28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, and
im, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a
wife of ers of Canaan.

28:2 Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel ts
father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban r’s brother.

28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitfltiply
thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 28:4 And give lessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou
maye the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave
unto Abraham.

2saac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban,
son of Bethrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob’s and Esau’s
mother.

28:6 Whe that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to
Padanaram, to take from thence; and that as he blessed him
he gave him a charge, saying,lt not take a wife of the
daughers of Canaan; 28:7 And that Jacob obeyher and his
mother, and was gone to Padanaram; 28:8 And Esau seeing thghters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 28:9 Then went Esau
unt, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the
daughter of Ishmae’s son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his
wife.

28:10 And Jacob wenm Beersheba, and went toward Haran.

28:11 And he lighted upon a certaand tarried there all
night, because the sun was set; and he took of tnes of that
place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that ep.

28:12 And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, anof it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending
and de it.

28:13 And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LAbraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou
liest,ill I give it, and to thy seed; 28:14 And thy seed
shall be as the dusarth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the
west, and to the east, and t and to the south: and in thee
and in thy seed shall all the families th be blessed.

28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee es
whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to
thee of.

2 Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD
is in thid I knew it not.

28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is t this is
none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heav And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that
he ha his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil
upon the top :19 And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of
that alled Luz at the first.

28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God wh me, and will
keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread t
raiment to put on, 28:21 So that I come again to my father’s house hen shall the LORD be my God: 28:22 And this stone, which I
have set fr, shall be God’s house: and of all that thou
shalt give me I will sthe tenth unto thee.

29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came ind of the
people of the east.

29:2 And he looked, and behold a well in, and, lo, there
were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of thy
watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well’s mouth.

hither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the
stone from ths mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone
again upon the wells place.

29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? Ann are we.

29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor?said, We know him.

29:6 And he said unto them, Is he well? And they s well:
and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.

29:7 A, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the
cattle should beogether: water ye the sheep, and go and
feed them.

29:8 And they saidt, until all the flocks be gathered
together, and till they roll the sthe well’s mouth; then we
water the sheep.

29:9 And while he yet sphem, Rachel came with her father’s
sheep; for she kept them.

29:10 me to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban
his mother’snd the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother,
that Jacob went near, anthe stone from the well’s mouth, and
watered the flock of Laban his  brother.

29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father’s brother, and thatekah’s son: and she ran and told her father.

29:13 And it came to pLaban heard the tidings of Jacob his
sister’s son, that he ran to med embraced him, and kissed
him, and brought him to his house. And he tall these things.

29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bonlesh. And
he abode with him the space of a month.

29:15 And Laban saib, Because thou art my brother,
shouldest thou therefore serve me for l me, what shall thy
wages be?  29:16 And Laban had two daughters: thee elder
was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.

29:17 Leah  eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well
favoured.

29:18 And Jacob lo; and said, I will serve thee seven years
for Rachel thy younger daugh:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that
I ve her to another man: abide with me.

29:20 And Jacob served seven yeachel; and they seemed unto
him but a few days, for the love he had to9:21 And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are
fulfit I may go in unto her.

29:22 And Laban gathered together all the menlace, and made a
feast.

29:23 And it came to pass in the evening, thaok Leah his
daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.nd Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an
handmaid.
 it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah:
and he saian, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I
serve with thee forore then hast thou beguiled me?
29:26 And Laban said, It must not be sr country, to give
the younger before the firstborn.

29:27 Fulfil herd we will give thee this also for the service
which thou shalt serve wt seven other years.

29:28 And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: e him Rachel
his daughter to wife also.

29:29 And Laban gave to Racheghter Bilhah his handmaid to be
her maid.

29:30 And he went in also u, and he loved also Rachel more
than Leah, and served with him yet sevyears.

29:31 And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her Rachel was barren.

29:32 And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and shes name
Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my afflitherefore my husband will love me.

29:33 And she conceived again, andon; and said, Because the
LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefome this son also:
and she called his name Simeon.

29:34 And she conce, and bare a son; and said, Now this time
will my husband be joined unause I have born him three sons:
therefore was his name called Levi.

he conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will
I praise therefore she called his name Judah; and left
bearing.

30:1 And when Rahat she bare Jacob no children, Rachel
envied her sister; and said untve me children, or else I
die.

30:2 And Jacob’s anger was kindled ahel: and he said, Am I
in God’s stead, who hath withheld from thee tof the womb?
30:3 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her;hall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.

30:4 Ae him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in
unto her.

30:5 Aed, and bare Jacob a son.

30:6 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, ame a son: therefore called she his name Dan.

30:7 And Bilhah Racheled again, and bare Jacob a second
son.

30:8 And Rachel said, With gree I wrestled with my
sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his ali.

30:9 When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah hend gave her Jacob to wife.

30:10 And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob :11 And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.

30:12h Leah’s maid bare Jacob a second son.

30:13 And Leah said, Happy ahe daughters will call me
blessed: and she called his name Asher.

30:euben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found
mandrakes in the fibrought them unto his mother Leah. Then
Rachel said to Leah, Give me, , of thy son’s mandrakes.

30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a smalhat thou hast taken
my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son’s also? And
Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for s
mandrakes.

30:16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, ant
out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I
 thee with my son’s mandrakes. And he lay with her that
night.

30:1earkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob
the fifth son.

 Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given
my maiden and: and she called his name Issachar.

30:19 And Leah conceived again Jacob the sixth son.

30:20 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a ; now will my
husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons:called his name Zebulun.

30:21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, anher name Dinah.

30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to opened
her womb.

30:23 And she conceived, and bare a son; and said,  taken away
my reproach: 30:24 And she called his name Joseph; and saiORD
shall add to me another son.

30:25 And it came to pass, when Rachorn Joseph, that Jacob
said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unwn place, and
to my country.

30:26 Give me my wives and my children,  have served thee,
and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I  thee.

30:27 And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found fahine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath
 me for thy sake.

30:28 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will
30:29 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and
tle was with me.

30:30 For it was little which thou hadst before I cais now
increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee sincng: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?  30:31
And hhat shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not
give me any thinu wilt do this thing for me, I will again
feed and keep thy flock.

30l pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence
all the specspotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among
the sheep, and the spoteckled among the goats: and of such
shall be my hire.

30:33 So shall usness answer for me in time to come, when it
shall come for my hire b face: every one that is not speckled
and spotted among the goats, andng the sheep, that shall be
counted stolen with me.

30:34 And Laban sld, I would it might be according to thy
word.

30:35 And he removed te he goats that were ringstraked and
spotted, and all the she goats thpeckled and spotted, and
every one that had some white in it, and all  among the
sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.

30:36 And ee days’ journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and
Jacob fed the rest os flocks.

30:37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of theel and
chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the wh0:38 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the
e to drink, that
they should conceive when they came to drink.

30:39  ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.

30:40 And Jacob did separate thel the brown in the flock of
Laban; and he put his own flocks by themseensoever the stronger cattle did
conceive, that Jacob laid the rods behe rods.

30:42 But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: san increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and
maidservants, and m sons, saying, Jacob hath taken
away all that was our father’s; and d the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was
not toward him as befo thy
fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.

31:4 And Jnd said unto them, I see your father’s countenance, that
it is not tye know that with all my power I have served your father.

31:7 And yoered him not to hurt me.

31:8 If he said thus, The speckled shall be ingstraked shall be
thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.

3

31:10 And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, thah
leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.

31:aid, Here am I.

31:12 And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, aand grisled: for I
have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.

31:13 I owedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this
land, and retusaid unto him, Is there yet any
portion or inheritance for us in our fh sold us, and hath quite devoured
also our money.

31:16 For all the en’s: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto
thee, do.

31:17 Then e carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he
had gotten, to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.

31:19 And Laban went father’s.

31:20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian,hat he had; and he rose up, and passed over
the river, and set his facday that Jacob was fled.

31:23 And he took his brethren with him, ande mount Gilead.

31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by ther good or bad.

31:25 Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitcnt of Gilead.

31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, thas captives
taken with the sword?  31:27 Wherefore didst thou flee awayve sent
thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with ha? thou
hast now done foolishly in so doing.

31:29 It is in the power esternight, saying, Take thou heed that
thou speak not to Jacob eitherecause thou sore
longedst after thy father’s house, yet wherefore han, Because I was
afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take b
31:32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: beforeine with me, and take it to thee.
For Jacob knew not that Rachel had sah’s tent, and into
the two maidservants’ tents; but he found thems tent.

31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the caed all the tent, but
found them not.

31:35 And she said to her father custom of women is upon me. And he
searched but found not the images.nswered
and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that td all my
stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set i
both.

31:38 This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and tht
eaten.

31:39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee;y
day, or stolen by night.

31:40 Thus I was; in the day the drought c.

31:41 Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee
fouhou hast changed my wages ten times.

31:42 Except the God of my fathe hadst sent me away now empty. God
hath seen mine affliction and the l

31:43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are mycattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day
unn?
31:44 Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; ook a stone, and set it up for a pillar.

31:46 And Jacob said unto hiand they did eat there upon the heap.

31:47 And Laban called it Jegareed.

31:48 And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and theehe
said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one fr take other
wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is  heap, and behold this
pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee:  not pass over this
heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over th the God of Nahor, the God of their
father, judge betwixt us. And Jacorifice upon the mount, and called his
brethren to eat bread: and they  morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and
his daughters, and blece.

32:1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.

3 the name of that place Mahanaim.

32:3 And Jacob sent messengers befo32:4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord
Eyed there until now: 32:5 And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and
mense in thy sight.

32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We hundred men
with him.

32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distress, and the camels,
into two bands; 32:8 And said, If Esau come to the  And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father
Isaad I will deal well with thee: 32:10 I am not worthy of
the least of aly servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan;
and now I am bbrother, from the
hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and surely do thee good, and make thy seed
as the sand of the sea, which cight; and took of that which came
to his hand a present for Esau his b, and twenty rams, 32:15
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kelivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove
by themselvestwixt drove and drove.

32:17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, Whou? and whither
goest thou? and whose are these before thee?  32:18 Tmy lord
Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.

32:19 And so commandOn this manner shall ye speak unto Esau,
when ye find him.

32:20 And l appease him with the present that goeth before me, and
afterward I wesent over before him: and himself lodged that
night in the company.

that night, and took his two wives, and his two
womenservants, and hisover the ford Jabbok.

32:23 And he took them, and sent them over the , and sent over
that he had.

32:24 And Jacob was left alone; and therman with him
until the breaking of the day.

32:25 And when he saw tha prevailed not against him, he touched
the hollow of his thigh; and th of Jacob’s thigh was out of
joint, as he wrestled with him.

32:26 t me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I
will not let thee go, exthou bless me.

32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he s.

32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Isral:
for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast
prevailed.

32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thame.
And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? Anessed him there.

32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: seen
God face to face, and my life is preserved.

32:31 And as he pasnuel the sun rose upon him, and he
halted upon his thigh.

32:32 Thereildren of Israel eat not of the sinew which
shrank, which is upon the he thigh, unto this day: because
he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thhe sinew that shrank.

33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, d, Esau came,
and with him four hundred men. And he divided the childrah,
and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.

33:2 And he put the andmaids and their children foremost, and Leah
and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.

33:3 And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground
seven times, until he came near to his brother.

33:4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and felneck,
and kissed him: and they wept.

33:5 And he lifted up his eyes,  women and the children;
and said, Who are those with thee? And he saildren which God
hath graciously given thy servant.

33:6 Then the handme near, they and their children, and they
bowed themselves.

33:7 Andwith her children came near, and bowed themselves:
and after came JoseRachel, and they bowed themselves.

33:8 And he said, What meanest tho drove which I met? And
he said, These are to find grace in the sight .

33:9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast
elf.

33:10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found gracight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have
seen th though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast
pleased with me.

33 I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because
God hath desly with me, and because I have enough. And he
urged him, and he took 2 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will
go b.

33:13 And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are
td the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men
should overdm one day, all the flock will die.

33:14 Let my lord, I pray thee, paservant: and I
will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth me and
the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto
33:15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk thatme. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the
sight of my:16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.

33:17 And Jacob juccoth, and built him an house, and made
booths for his cattle: therefname of the place is called
Succoth.

33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem,  Shechem, which is in the
land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram;and pitched his tent
before the city.

33:19 And he bought a parcel ofeld, where he had spread his tent,
at the hand of the children of Hamoem’s father, for an hundred
pieces of money.

33:20 And he erected ttar, and called it EleloheIsrael.

34:1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah bare unto Jacob, went
out to see the daughters of the land.

34:2 Andhem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the
country, saw her, he tod lay with her, and defiled her.

34:3 And his soul clave unto Dinah ter of Jacob, and he loved
the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damseld Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this
damsel to wAnd Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his
sons wis cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until
they were come. Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune
with him.
he sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it:
and the mend, and they were very wroth, because he had
wrought folly in Israel inh Jacob’s daughter: which thing
ought not to be done.

34:8 And Hamo with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem
longeth for your daught you give her him to wife.

34:9 And make ye marriages with us, and gighters unto us,
and take our daughters unto you.

34:10 And ye shall dus: and the land shall be before you;
dwell and trade ye therein, and ssessions therein.

34:11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto he, Let me
find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will:12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according
as y unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.

34:13 And the sons of Jaco Shechem and Hamor his father
deceitfully, and said, because he had de their sister:
34:14 And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing,ur
sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be,
that eveyou be circumcised; 34:16 Then will we give our
daughters unto you, antake your daughters to us, and we will
dwell with you, and we will becople.

34:17 But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; th take our daughter, and we will be gone.

34:18 And their words pleased Shechem Hamor’s son.

34:19 And the young man deferred not to do tecause he had
delight in Jacob’s daughter: and he was more honourabl the
house of his father.

34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came une of their city,
and communed with the men of their city, saying, 34:2n are
peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and tra; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us
take their to us for wives, and let us give them our
daughters.

34:22 Only heree men consent unto us for to dwell with us,
to be one people, if everyg us be circumcised, as they are
circumcised.

34:23 Shall not their ctheir substance and every beast of
theirs be ours? only let us consent, and they will dwell
with us.

34:24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem hearkened all that went
out of the gate of his city; and every male wased, all that
went out of the gate of his city.

34:25 And it came to e third day, when they were sore, that
two of the sons of Jacob, Simeo Dinah’s brethren, took each
man his sword, and came upon the city b slew all the males.

34:26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son wi of the
sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and went out.
e sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city,
because theiled their sister.

34:28 They took their sheep, and their oxen, and t, and that
which was in the city, and that which was in the field, 34:r wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they
captiveed even all that was in the house.

34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon andhave troubled me to make
me to stink among the inhabitants of the landhe Canaanites
and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shalhemselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed,
house.

34:31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an35:1 And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there:there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou
fleddest fre of Esau thy brother.

35:2 Then Jacob said unto his household, and t were with
him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be change your garments: 35:3 And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and
Ihere an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my
distress, and me in the way which I went.

35:4 And they gave unto Jacob all the st which were in their
hand, and all their earrings which were in their Jacob hid
them under the oak which was by Shechem.

35:5 And they jourd the terror of God was upon the cities
that were round about them, and not pursue after the sons of
Jacob.

35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, whice land of Canaan, that is,
Bethel, he and all the people that were wit:7 And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel:
because appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his
brother.

35:8 B Rebekah’s nurse died, and she was buried beneath
Bethel under an oaname of it was called Allonbachuth.

35:9 And God appeared unto Jacob n he came out of Padanaram,
and blessed him.

35:10 And God said unto ame is Jacob: thy name shall not be
called any more Jacob, but Israel thy name: and he called his
name Israel.

35:11 And God said unto him,Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations thee, and
kings shall come out of thy loins; 35:12 And the land which aham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee
wilhe land.

35:13 And God went up from him in the place where he talked 35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him,llar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he
poured o

35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with hi

35:16 And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.

35:17 And itss, when she was in hard labour, that the
midwife said unto her, Fear shalt have this son also.

35:18 And it came to pass, as her soul was ng, (for she
died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father calnjamin.

35:19 And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, ethlehem.

35:20 And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the piachel’s grave unto this day.

35:21 And Israel journeyed, and spread beyond the tower of
Edar.

35:22 And it came to pass, when Israel dwe land, that Reuben
went and lay with Bilhah his father’s concubine: el heard it.
Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 35:23 The sons of Leahacob’s firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and35:24 The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 35:25 And the
sons of hel’s handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 35:26 And the
sons of Zilpah, Leaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of
Jacob, which were born to hiram.

35:27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the ah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.

35:28 And thesaac were an hundred and fourscore years.

35:29 And Isaac gave up the died, and was gathered unto his
people, being old and full of days: a Esau and Jacob buried
him.

36:1 Now these are the generations of Esadom.

36:2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daElon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter
of Hivite; 36:3 And Bashemath Ishmael’s daughter, sister of
Nebajoth.

dah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 36:5 And
Aholibamah, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of
Esau, which were born  the land of Canaan.

36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and  and all
the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts,his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into
t from the face of his brother Jacob.

36:7 For their riches were more hey might dwell together;
and the land wherein they were strangers cour them because
of their cattle.

36:8 Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: E
36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the EdomitesSeir: 36:10 These are the names of Esau’s sons; Eliphaz the
son of Afe of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of
Esau.

36:11 And thEliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and
Kenaz.

36:12 And Timnz Esau’s son; and she bare to
Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of’s wife.

36:13 And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, nd
Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau’s wife.

36:14 And e the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the
daughter of Zibeon,wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and
Jaalam, and Korah.

36:15 These  of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the
firstborn son of Esau; d duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
36:16 Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.uel Esau’s son; duke Nahath, duke
Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of
Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau’s
wife.

36:18 And these are the sons of holibamah Esau’s wife; duke Jeush,
duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these wes that came of Aholibamah
the daughter of Anah, Esau’s wife.

36:19 he sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their
dukes.

36:20 These s of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land;
Lotan, and Shobal, and Z Anah, 36:21 And Dishon, and Ezer,
and Dishan: these are the dukes of s, the children of Seir
in the land of Edom.

36:22 And the children ore Hori and Hemam; and Lotan’s
sister was Timna.

36:23 And the chilbal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and
Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.

36:2e are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this
was that Anah  the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the
asses of Zibeon his fathernd the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the
daughte
36:26 And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and
I Cheran.

36:27 The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, an36:28 The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

36:29 These are that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke
Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke 6:30 Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke
Dishan: these are the dukes that cam among their dukes in
the land of Seir.

36:31 And these are the kingsgned in the land of Edom, before
there reigned any king over the childel.

36:32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of hs Dinhabah.

36:33 And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah
his stead.

36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reis
stead.

36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smotn
the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city wa36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

36mlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in
his stead.

36aul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his
stead.

36:39anan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his
stead: and the n city was Pau; and his wife’s name was
Mehetabel, the daughter of Ma daughter of Mezahab.

36:40 And these are the names of the dukes thatsau,
according to their families, after their places, by their names; ah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 36:41 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah,
duke P Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 36:43 Duke
Magdiel, duke Iram: te dukes of Edom, according to their
habitations in the land of their phe is Esau the father of
the Edomites.

37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the lahis father was a stranger, in
the land of Canaan.

37:2 These are the s of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years
old, was feeding the flock wethren; and the lad was with the
sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of  father’s wives: and
Joseph brought unto his father their evil reporow Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he
was the ge: and he made him a coat of many colours.

37:4 And when his brethreher loved him more than
all his brethren, they hated him, and could noceably unto
him.

37:5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his nd they
hated him yet the more.

37:6 And he said unto them, Hear, I phis dream which I have
dreamed: 37:7 For, behold, we were binding sheafield, and,
lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, ys
stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.

37:8 And his breto him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or
shalt thou indeed have domus? And they hated him yet the
more for his dreams, and for his words. he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and
said, Beh dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and
the moon and the eleve obeisance to me.

37:10 And he told it to his father, and to his brethis
father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thomed?  Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to
bow down to thee to the earth?  37:11 And his brethren
envied him; but his fath the saying.

37:12 And his brethren went to feed their father’s flochem.

37:13 And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him,
He37:14 And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well withen, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he
sent him  vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.

37:15 And a certain man foun behold, he was wandering in
the field: and the man asked him, saying,est thou?  37:16
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray theeey feed
their flocks.

37:17 And the man said, They are departed henceard them say,
Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren,
them in Dothan.

37:18 And when they saw him afar off, even before her unto
them, they conspired against him to slay him.

37:19 And they s another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.

37:20 Come now therefore, and y him, and cast him into some
pit, and we will say, Some evil beast had him: and we shall
see what will become of his dreams.

37:21 And Reuit, and he delivered him out of their hands;
and said, Let us not kill22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this
piin the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might
rid him out hands, to deliver him to his father again.

37:23 And it came to passph was come unto his brethren,
that they stript Joseph out of his coatt of many colours that
was on him; 37:24 And they took him, and cast hpit: and the
pit was empty, there was no water in it.

37:25 And they to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes
and looked, and, behold, af Ishmeelites came from Gilead
with their camels bearing spicery and byrrh, going to carry
it down to Egypt.

37:26 And Judah said unto his hat profit is it if we slay
our brother, and conceal his blood?  37:27 let us sell him
to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; our
brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.

37:28 Thened by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and
lifted up Joseph out oand sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites
for twenty pieces of silver: and tht Joseph into Egypt.

37:29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behh was not in
the pit; and he rent his clothes.

37:30 And he returned rethren, and said, The child is not;
and I, whither shall I go?  37:31took Joseph’s coat, and
killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coblood; 37:32 And
they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought ir
father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy soor no.

37:33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son’s coat; an evilh devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.

37:34 And Jacs clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins,
and mourned for his son m
37:35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him;
fused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into
the grave  mourning. Thus his father wept for him.

37:36 And the Midianites solEgypt unto Potiphar, an officer
of Pharaoh’s, and captain of the guat came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his
brethren, a in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.

38:2 And Judah sawaughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name
was Shuah; and he took her,n unto her.

38:3 And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his38:4 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name
5 And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name
Shee was at Chezib, when she bare him.

38:6 And Judah took a wife for Ertborn, whose name was Tamar.

38:7 And Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wie sight of the LORD;
and the LORD slew him.

38:8 And Judah said unto n unto thy brother’s wife, and
marry her, and raise up seed to thy b38:9 And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to
paswent in unto his brother’s wife, that he spilled it on
the ground, l should give seed to his brother.

38:10 And the thing which he did dihe LORD: wherefore he
slew him also.

38:11 Then said Judah to Tamar h in law, Remain a widow at
thy father’s house, till Shelah my son be he said, Lest
peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tama
dwelt in her father’s house.

38:12 And in process of time the dauguah Judah’s wife died;
and Judah was comforted, and went up unto hisarers to
Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.

38:13 And i Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up
to Timnath to shear 

38:14 And she put her widow’s garments off from her, and covered h vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is
by the nath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was
not given unto hi
38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because sheed her face.

38:16 And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go toee,
let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daught) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come
in unto And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock.
And she said, Wilt me a pledge, till thou send it?  38:18
And he said, What pledge shalle? And she said, Thy signet,
and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is hand. And he gave it
her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by h And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and
put ments of her widowhood.

38:20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of hthe Adullamite,
to receive his pledge from the woman’s hand: but he not.

38:21 Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the
hat was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no
harlot in .

38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and aln of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.

38:23 Anaid, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed:
behold, I sent this kiu hast not found her.

38:24 And it came to pass about three months aft was told
Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the haalso, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her let her be burnt.

38:25 When she was brought forth, she sent to her law,
saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she sairn, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and
staff:26 And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more
righteou because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he
knew her again n:27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold,
twins were in her womb.

38:28 And it came to pass, when she travailed, the put out
his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scad, saying, This came out first.

38:29 And it came to pass, as he drewhand, that, behold, his
brother came out: and she said, How hast thou rth? this
breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.

fterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread
upon his has name was called Zarah.

39:1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; a, an officer of
Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought himds of
the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

39:2 And t with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he
was in the house of the Egyptian.

39:3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him, andmade all that he did to prosper in his hand.

39:4 And Joseph found gr sight, and he served him: and he
made him overseer over his house, anhe had he put into his
hand.

39:5 And it came to pass from the time t made him overseer
in his house, and over all that he had, that the LOthe
Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake; and the blessing of the LO was
upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

39:6 And he that he had in Joseph’s hand; and he knew not
ought he had, save thch he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly
person, and well favoured.

39:me to pass after these things, that his master’s wife
cast her eyes h; and she said, Lie with me.

39:8 But he refused, and said unto his  wife, Behold, my
master wotteth not what is with me in the house, andmmitted
all that he hath to my hand; 39:9 There is none greater in thithan I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because
his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin
against Godnd it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by
day, that he hearkeno her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

39:11 And it came to pass abme, that Joseph went into the
house to do his business; and there was e men of the house
there within.

39:12 And she caught him by his garmng, Lie with me: and he
left his garment in her hand, and fled, and go

39:13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garmentnd, and was fled forth, 39:14 That she called unto the men of
her houske unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an
Hebrew unto us to mocame in unto me to lie with me, and I
cried with a loud voice: 39:15 An to pass, when he heard that
I lifted up my voice and cried, that he lrment with me, and
fled, and got him out.

39:16 And she laid up his g her, until his lord came home.

39:17 And she spake unto him accordine words, saying, The
Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, to me to
mock me: 39:18 And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice athat he left his garment with me, and fled out.

39:19 And it came to  his master heard the words of his
wife, which she spake unto him, saythis manner did thy
servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.

39:20 h’s master took him, and put him into the prison, a
place where the isoners were bound: and he was there in the
prison.

39:21 But the LORJoseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him
favour in the sight of the the prison.

39:22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’ the
prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there,e doer of it.

39:23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing der
his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the it to prosper.

40:1 And it came to pass after these things, that th the
king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of E2 And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the
chieftlers, and against the chief of the bakers.

40:3 And he put them in w house of the captain of the guard,
into the prison, the place where Jbound.

40:4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and them: and they continued a season in ward.

40:5 And they dreamed a of them, each man his dream in one
night, each man according to the inn of his dream, the
butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which win the
prison.

40:6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and n
them, and, behold, they were sad.

40:7 And he asked Pharaoh’s offwere with him in the ward of
his lord’s house, saying, Wherefore loodly to day?  40:8 And
they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, andno
interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretationo God? tell me them, I pray you.

40:9 And the chief butler told his dseph, and said to him,
In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 40:1e vine were
three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blt
forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 40:11 Ands cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them
into Phap, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.

40:12 And Joseph said unis is the interpretation of it: The
three branches are three days: 40:three days shall
Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thyd thou
shalt deliver Pharaoh’s cup into his hand, after the former m thou wast his butler.

40:14 But think on me when it shall be well wiand shew
kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pnd bring me out of this house: 40:15 For indeed I was stolen away out
nd of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that
they should o the dungeon.

40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation he
said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had threekets on my head: 40:17 And in the uppermost basket there was
of all maemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out
of the basket upon 
40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation
thereoe baskets are three days: 40:19 Yet within three days
shall Pharaoh lihead from off thee, and shall hang thee on a
tree; and the birds shallesh from off thee.

40:20 And it came to pass the third day, which wass birthday,
that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he liftedd
of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

40:2estored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and
he gave the cuaoh’s hand: 40:22 But he hanged the chief
baker: as Joseph had interthem.

40:23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat  And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh
dreameold, he stood by the river.

41:2 And, behold, there came up out of then well favoured
kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.

41:3 ld, seven other kine came up after them out of the
river, ill favouredfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon
the brink of the river.

41:ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven
well favoured ane. So Pharaoh awoke.

41:5 And he slept and dreamed the second time: d, seven ears
of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.

41:6 And seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind
sprung up after them.
the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears.
And Pharaohnd, behold, it was a dream.

41:8 And it came to pass in the morning tirit was troubled;
and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egyl the
wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

41:9 Then spake the chief butler h, saying, I do remember
my faults this day: 41:10 Pharaoh was wroth wrvants, and put
me in ward in the captain of the guard’s house, bothe chief
baker: 41:11 And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; weach man according to the interpretation of his dream.

41:12 And there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to
the captain of the guard;  him, and he interpreted to us
our dreams; to each man according to hi did interpret.

41:13 And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, s me he
restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.

41:14 Then Phara called Joseph, and they brought him
hastily out of the dungeon: and himself, and changed his
raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.

41:15 And id unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there
is none that can int: and I have heard say of thee, that thou
canst understand a dream to it.

41:16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God sPharaoh an answer of peace.

41:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In myehold, I stood upon
the bank of the river: 41:18 And, behold, there ca of the
river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed i: 41:19 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor
and verured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the
land of Egypt for1:20 And the lean and the ill favoured
kine did eat up the first seven 41:21 And when they had
eaten them up, it could not be known that theen them; but
they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I a saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one
stalk, full a, thin,
and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 41:24 And the
thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the
magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.

41:25 Andnto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God
hath shewed Pharaoh whatut to do.

41:26 The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven goe
seven years: the dream is one.

41:27 And the seven thin and ill favthat came up after them
are seven years; and the seven empty ears blase east wind
shall be seven years of famine.

41:28 This is the thing we spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is
about to do he sheweth unto Pharaohehold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all
the land 1:30 And there shall arise after them seven years
of famine; and all thall be forgotten in the land of Egypt;
and the famine shall consume t1:31 And the plenty shall not
be known in the land by reason of that fwing; for it shall
be very grievous.

41:32 And for that the dream wasnto Pharaoh twice; it is
because the thing is established by God, and ortly bring it
to pass.

41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a maand wise, and
set him over the land of Egypt.

41:34 Let Pharaoh do tht him appoint officers over the land,
and take up the fifth part of thgypt in the seven plenteous
years.

41:35 And let them gather all the hose good years that come,
and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, m keep food in
the cities.

41:36 And that food shall be for store to gainst the seven
years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt;land
perish not through the famine.

41:37 And the thing was good in t Pharaoh, and in the eyes
of all his servants.

41:38 And Pharaoh saidervants, Can we find such a one as
this is, a man in whom the Spirit o41:39 And Pharaoh said
unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee here is none
so discreet and wise as thou art: 41:40 Thou shalt be ovee,
and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in twill I be greater than thou.

41:41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See,t thee over all the
land of Egypt.

41:42 And Pharaoh took off his rinhand, and put it upon
Joseph’s hand, and arrayed him in vestures of , and put a
gold chain about his neck; 41:43 And he made him to ride ind
chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and m ruler over all the land of Egypt.

41:44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseparaoh, and without thee
shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all t Egypt.

41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphnathpaaneah; andim to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And
Josephver all the land of Egypt.

41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old whenbefore Pharaoh
king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence ofnd
went throughout all the land of Egypt.

41:47 And in the seven plens the earth brought forth by
handfuls.

41:48 And he gathered up all t the seven years, which were
in the land of Egypt, and laid up the footies: the food of
the field, which was round about every city, laid he same.

41:49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very mue left numbering; for it was without number.

41:50 And unto Joseph we sons before the years of famine
came, which Asenath the daughter of Piest of On bare unto
him.

41:51 And Joseph called the name of the firsseh: For God,
said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my faouse.

41:52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hate to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.

41:53 And the seven yenteousness, that was in the land of
Egypt, were ended.

41:54 And the ars of dearth began to come, according as Joseph
had said: and the dea all lands; but in all the land of
Egypt there was bread.

41:55 And w land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to
Pharaoh for bread: anaid unto all the Egyptians, Go unto
Joseph; what he saith to you, do.
 the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Joseph
opened all orehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the
famine waxed sore in tEgypt.

41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy cse that the famine was so sore in all lands.

42:1 Now when Jacob saw was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto
his sons, Why do ye look one upon a:2 And he said, Behold,
I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get ither, and
buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.

42:s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.

42:4 But Benjamin, Jo brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren;
for he said, Lest peradvenhief befall him.

42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among tcame:
for the famine was in the land of Canaan.

42:6 And Joseph was t over the land, and he it was that
sold to all the people of the land:h’s brethren came, and
bowed down themselves before him with their f earth.

42:7 And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made trange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them,
e ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.

42:8 And Johis brethren, but they knew not him.

42:9 And Joseph remembered the dh he dreamed of them, and
said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakthe land ye are
come.

42:10 And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, butod are thy
servants come.

42:11 We are all one man’s sons; we are ty servants are no
spies.

42:12 And he said unto them, Nay, but to seeness of the land
ye are come.

42:13 And they said, Thy servants are tthren, the sons of one
man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youis day with
our father, and one is not.

42:14 And Joseph said unto th it that I spake unto you,
saying, Ye are spies: 42:15 Hereby ye shall By the life of
Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngr come
hither.

42:16 Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother,ll be
kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.

42:17 Andm all together into ward three days.

42:18 And Joseph said unto them day, This do, and live; for
I fear God: 42:19 If ye be true men, let obrethren be bound
in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for tof your
houses: 42:20 But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shal verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.

42:21 And they saidother, We are verily guilty concerning
our brother, in that we saw thef his soul, when he besought
us, and we would not hear; therefore is tss come upon us.

42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not saying,
Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? thereforelso his blood is required.

42:23 And they knew not that Joseph unders for he spake unto
them by an interpreter.

42:24 And he turned himselom them, and wept; and returned to
them again, and communed with them,rom them Simeon, and
bound him before their eyes.

42:25 Then Joseph c fill their sacks with corn, and to
restore every man’s money into h and to give them provision
for the way: and thus did he unto them.

4hey laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.

42:27 And aem opened his sack to give his ass provender in
the inn, he espied his, behold, it was in his sack’s mouth.

42:28 And he said unto his bry money is restored; and, lo, it
is even in my sack: and their heart f, and they were afraid,
saying one to another, What is this that God hnto us?  42:29
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of 
told him all that befell unto them; saying, 42:30 The man, who is thehe land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the
country.

4e said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies: 42:32 We
be twelve ons of our father; one is not, and the youngest
is this day with our fhe land of Canaan.

42:33 And the man, the lord of the country, said ureby shall
I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren her
and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone: 42:34
Aour youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are
no spies, e are true men: so will I deliver you your
brother, and ye shall traffland.

42:35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, bey man’s bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and
theisaw the bundles of money, they were afraid.

42:36 And Jacob their fatd unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my
children: Joseph is not, and Sit, and ye will take Benjamin
away: all these things are against me.

4euben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I
bring him eliver him into my hand, and I will bring him
to thee again.

42:38 Anaid, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother
is dead, and halone: if mischief befall him by the way in
the which ye go, then shal down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave.

43:1 And the famine washe land.

43:2 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn whad brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy
usood.

43:3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly prot, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with
you.

hou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy
thee food: f thou wilt not send him, we will not go down:
for the man said unto ul not see my face, except your
brother be with you.

43:6 And Israel sfore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell
the man whether ye had yet a 3:7 And they said, The man
asked us straitly of our state, and of our saying, Is your
father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we tolding
to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he wouldg your brother down?  43:8 And Judah said unto Israel his
father, Sendith me, and we will arise and go; that we may
live, and not die, both thou, and also our little ones.

43:9 I will be surety for him; of my m not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the
blame f now we had
returned this second time.

43:11 And their father Israel t must be so now, do
this; take of the best fruits in the land in yourels, and carry
down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honces, and
myrrh, nuts, and almonds: 43:12 And take double money in yourthe money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry
it our hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 43:13 Take
also your brothrise, go again unto the man: 43:14 And God
Almighty give you mercy befn, that he may send away your
other brother, and Benjamin. If I be ber children, I am
bereaved.

43:15 And the men took that present, and thuble money in
their hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Estood before Joseph.

43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, hehe ruler of
his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready;e
men shall dine with me at noon.

43:17 And the man did as Joseph badhe man brought the men into
Joseph’s house.

43:18 And the men were use they were brought into Joseph’s
house; and they said, Because of that was returned in our
sacks at the first time are we brought in; t seek occasion
against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, es.

43:19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph’s house, and ed with him at the door of the house, 43:20 And said, O sir, we
came i at the first time to buy food: 43:21 And it came to
pass, when we camn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold,
every man’s money was in tf his sack, our money in full
weight: and we have brought it again in 
43:22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food:
tell who put our money in our sacks.

43:23 And he said, Peace be to yot: your God, and the God of
your father, hath given you treasure in y I had your money.
And he brought Simeon out unto them.

43:24 And theht the men into Joseph’s house, and gave them
water, and they washedt; and he gave their asses provender.

43:25 And they made ready the pinst Joseph came at noon: for
they heard that they should eat bread th26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which
was id into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the
earth.

43:27 Andhem of their welfare, and said, Is your father
well, the old man of whe? Is he yet alive?  43:28 And they
answered, Thy servant our father ihealth, he is yet alive.
And they bowed down their heads, and made obe3:29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his
moth, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake
unto me? AnGod be gracious unto thee, my son.

43:30 And Joseph made haste; for hid yearn upon his
brother: and he sought where to weep; and he enteredhamber,
and wept there.

43:31 And he washed his face, and went out, ad himself, and
said, Set on bread.

43:32 And they set on for him by hthem by themselves,
and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by lves: because
the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for abomination unto the Egyptians.

43:33 And they sat before him, the ficording to his
birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: anmarvelled one at another.

43:34 And he took and sent messes unto themre him: but
Benjamin’s mess was five times so much as any of theirs.drank, and were merry with him.

44:1 And he commanded the steward of saying, Fill the men’s
sacks with food, as much as they can carry, ay man’s money
in his sack’s mouth.

44:2 And put my cup, the silvethe sack’s mouth of the
youngest, and his corn money. And he did accthe word that
Joseph had spoken.

44:3 As soon as the morning was lighen were sent away, they
and their asses.

44:4 And when they were gone city, and not yet far off,
Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow aen; and when thou
dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have yeevil for
good?  44:5 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whe he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.

44:6 And he overtook thepake unto them these same words.

44:7 And they said unto him, Wherefoth my lord these words? God
forbid that thy servants should do accordi thing: 44:8
Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks’ mouths,
again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal
olord’s house silver or gold?  44:9 With whomsoever of thy
servants i, both let him die, and we also will be my lord’s
bondmen.

44:10 An Now also let it be according unto your words: he
with whom it is foun my servant; and ye shall be blameless.

44:11 Then they speedily tookery man his sack to the ground,
and opened every man his sack.

44:12 ched, and began at the eldest, and left at the
youngest: and the cup wn Benjamin’s sack.

44:13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded ev ass, and
returned to the city.

44:14 And Judah and his brethren came’s house; for he was
yet there: and they fell before him on the grouAnd Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done?
wot ye such a man as I can certainly divine?  44:16 And Judah
said, What shaunto my lord? what shall we speak?  or how
shall we clear ourselves? Gnd out the iniquity of thy
servants: behold, we are my lord’s servan, and he also with
whom the cup is found.

44:17 And he said, God forbshould do so: but the man in
whose hand the cup is found, he shall be  and as for you,
get you up in peace unto your father.

44:18 Then Judar unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy
servant, I pray thee, speak my lord’s ears, and let not
thine anger burn against thy servant: ft even as Pharaoh.

44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye or a
brother?  44:20 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an ola child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is
dead, and he t of his mother, and his father loveth him.

44:21 And thou saidst untants, Bring him down unto me, that
I may set mine eyes upon him.

44:2id unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for
if he should leaer, his father would die.

44:23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Exoungest brother
come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.

44:came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father,
we told him tf my lord.

44:25 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little f And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with
us, te go down: for we may not see the man’s face, except
our youngest brith us.

44:27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that myme two sons: 44:28 And the one went out from me, and I said,
Surely hen pieces; and I saw him not since: 44:29 And if ye
take this also fromischief befall him, ye shall bring down
my gray hairs with sorrow to t
44:30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the ladth us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad’s life;
44:31 It  to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with
us, that he will die:rvants shall bring down the gray hairs
of thy servant our father with grave.

44:32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my fatherIf I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to
my fatheret thy servant abide instead of the
lad a bondman to my lord; and let d go up with his brethren.

44:34 For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me?
lest peradventure I see the evil that shalme on my father.

45:1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before al stood
by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And thno man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his
brethren.

4he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh
heard.

45:3h said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father
yet live? And hi could not answer him; for they were
troubled at his presence.

45:4 Aaid unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you.
And they came nearaid, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye
sold into Egypt.

45:5 Now thert grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye
sold me hither: for God e before you to preserve life.

45:6 For these two years hath the famithe land: and yet
there are five years, in the which there shall neithng nor
harvest.

45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posn the
earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.

45:8 So not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath
made me a father to Pd lord of all his house, and a ruler
throughout all the land of Egypt.e ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith
thy son Josth made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me,
tarry not: 45:10 And  dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou
shalt be near unto me, thou, andren, and thy children’s
children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, anthou hast: 45:11
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are fivefamine;
lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to 45:12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin,t is my mouth that speaketh unto you.

45:13 And ye shall tell my fathmy glory in Egypt, and of all
that ye have seen; and ye shall haste ann my father hither.

45:14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin’s npt; and
Benjamin wept upon his neck.

45:15 Moreover he kissed all his and wept upon them: and
after that his brethren talked with him.

45:fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying,
Joseph’s brethr: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his
servants.

45:17 And Pharaoh saseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye;
lade your beasts, and go, getthe land of Canaan; 45:18 And
take your father and your households, an unto me: and I will
give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye she fat of
the land.

45:19 Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take yout of the
land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bfather, and come.

45:20 Also regard not your stuff; for the good of a of
Egypt is yours.

45:21 And the children of Israel did so: and Joseem wagons,
according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them prove way.

45:22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but  he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of
raiment.

45:23 And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden
with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and
bread and meat for his father by the way.

45:24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said
unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.

45:25 And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan
unto Jacob their father, 45:26 And told him, saying, Joseph is yet
alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob’s
heart fainted, for he believed them not.

45:27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said
unto them: and when e wagons which Joseph had sent to carry
him, the spirit of Jacob theirived: 45:28 And Israel said,
It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: and see him before
I die.

46:1 And Israel took his journey with all d, and came to
Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his f.

46:2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and saiacob. And he said, Here am I.

46:3 And he said, I am God, the God of er: fear not to go down
into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a grn: 46:4 I will
go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely brup
again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.

46:5 And Jac from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried
Jacob their father, anittle ones, and their wives, in the
wagons which Pharaoh had sent to c

46:6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had
gote land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his
seed with his sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his
daughters, and his sons’ , and all his seed brought he with
him into Egypt.

46:8 And these are of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt, Jacob and his sons:n, Jacob’s firstborn.

46:9 And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phalezron, and
Carmi.

46:10 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.

46:11 s of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

46:12 And the sons of Judah; an, and Shelah, and Pharez, and
Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the lanan. And the sons of
Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.

46:13 And the sons r; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and
Shimron.

46:14 And the sons of Zebu and Elon, and Jahleel.

46:15 These be the sons of Leah, which she bacob in
Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons ahters were thirty and three.

46:16 And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and i, and Ezbon, Eri,
and Arodi, and Areli.

46:17 And the sons of Asher;nd Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah,
and Serah their sister: and the sons Heber, and Malchiel.

46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gah his
daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

4sons of Rachel Jacob’s wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.

46:20 And unto Jhe land of Egypt were born Manasseh and
Ephraim, which Asenath the dautipherah priest of On bare
unto him.

46:21 And the sons of Benjamin wand Becher, and Ashbel,
Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and H Ard.

46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: als were fourteen.

46:23 And the sons of Dan; Hushim.

46:24 And the stali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and
Shillem.

46:25 These are the ilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his
daughter, and she bare these u all the souls were seven.

46:26 All the souls that came with Jacob i which came out of
his loins, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives, all thee threescore
and six; 46:27 And the sons of Joseph, which were born hit,
were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came intere threescore and ten.

46:28 And he sent Judah before him unto Josepct his face
unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.

46:29h made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel
his father, to Goresented himself unto him; and he fell on
his neck, and wept on his newhile.

46:30 And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I hav face, because thou art yet alive.

46:31 And Joseph said unto his breunto his father’s house,
I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unt brethren, and my
father’s house, which were in the land of Canaan, nto me;
46:32 And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to e; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all
that t
46:33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and
sha is your occupation?  46:34 That ye shall say, Thy
servants’ trade hbout cattle from our youth even until now,
both we, and also our fathe may dwell in the land of
Goshen; for every shepherd is an abominationEgyptians.

47:1 Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My fatherethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have,
art of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land
of Goshen.
 he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented
them unto 47:3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And
nto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also
our fathershey said morever unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we
come;ervants have no pasture for their flocks; for the
famine is sore in than: now therefore, we pray thee, let
thy servants dwell in the land ofshen.

47:5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy
re come unto thee: 47:6 The land of Egypt is before thee; in
the best  make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the
land of Goshen let them and if thou knowest any men of activity
among them, then make them rumy cattle.

47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him boh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.

47:8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How u?  47:9 And Jacob
said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilg an
hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years  been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the
life ofs in the days of their pilgrimage.

47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, a from before Pharaoh.

47:11 And Joseph placed his father and his bretgave them a
possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, 
of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.

47:12 And Joseph nourished hisd his brethren, and all his
father’s household, with bread, accordinfamilies.

47:13 And there was no bread in all the land; for the famin
sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted bythe famine.

47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was foundnd
of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they boughtph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house.

47:15 And when money fai land of Egypt, and in the land of
Canaan, all the Egyptians came untod said, Give us bread:
for why should we die in thy presence? for the eth.

47:16 And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you forle, if money fail.

47:17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: a gave them
bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for t
of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all
te for that year.

47:18 When that year was ended, they came unto him tyear,
and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that ouspent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not
ought left ht of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
47:19 Wherefore shall wee thine eyes, both we and our land?
buy us and our land for bread, andr land will be servants
unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may lidie, that
the land be not desolate.

47:20 And Joseph bought all the lpt for Pharaoh; for the
Egyptians sold every man his field, because thevailed over
them: so the land became Pharaoh’s.

47:21 And as for the removed them to cities from one end of
the borders of Egypt even to end thereof.

47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not; for t had
a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion whi gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

47:23 Then Joseph sahe people, Behold, I have bought you this
day and your land for Pharao is seed for you, and ye shall
sow the land.

47:24 And it shall come  in the increase, that ye shall give
the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and  shall be your own, for
seed of the field, and for your food, and for ur households,
and for food for your little ones.

47:25 And they saidt saved our lives: let us find grace in
the sight of my lord, and we wraoh’s servants.

47:26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Eghis day,
that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of tonly, which became not Pharaoh’s.

47:27 And Israel dwelt in the lan, in the country of Goshen;
and they had possessions therein, and grewplied
exceedingly.

47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt sevente so the
whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.

47:2ime drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his
son Joseph, and  him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,
put, I pray thee, thy hay thigh, and deal kindly and truly
with me; bury me not, I pray thee, 47:30 But I will lie with
my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of E bury me in their
buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast sa And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel
bowed hn the bed’s head.

48:1 And it came to pass after these things, that Joseph,
Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sonssseh and Ephraim.

48:2 And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son ometh unto
thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz
in the lan, and blessed me, 48:4 And said unto me, Behold,
I will make thee fr multiply thee, and I will make of thee
a multitude of people; and wils land to thy seed after thee
for an everlasting possession.

48:5 Andwo sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto
thee in the land ofore I came unto thee into Egypt, are
mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they mine.

48:6 And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be shall be called after the name of their brethren in their
inheritance.d as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the
land of he way, when yet there was but a little way to come
unto Ephrath: and er there in the way of Ephrath; the same
is Bethlehem.

48:8 And Israeoseph’s sons, and said, Who are these?  48:9
And Joseph said unto hiThey are my sons, whom God hath given
me in this place. And he said, B I pray thee, unto me, and I
will bless them.

48:10 Now the eyes of I dim for age, so that he could not
see.

And he brought them near untohe kissed them, and embraced
them.

48:11 And Israel said unto Joseph, thought to see thy face:
and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.

oseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed
himself wiace to the earth.

48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his rigward
Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel hand, and brought them near unto him.

48:14 And Israel stretched outhand, and laid it upon
Ephraim’s head, who was the younger, and his upon Manasseh’s
head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was born.

48:15 And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fath and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto
this de Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the
lads; and let my na on them, and the name of my fathers
Abraham and Isaac; and let them g multitude in the midst of
the earth.

48:17 And when Joseph saw that laid his right hand upon the
head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and hhis father’s hand,
to remove it from Ephraim’s head unto Manasseh48:18 And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is
born; put thy right hand upon his head.

48:19 And his father refused, I know it, my son, I know it:
he also shall become a people, and he a be great: but truly
his younger brother shall be greater than he, andshall
become a multitude of nations.

48:20 And he blessed them that d, In thee shall Israel
bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as and he set
Ephraim before Manasseh.

48:21 And Israel said unto Joseph I die: but God shall be
with you, and bring you again unto the land o2 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren,
which of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my
bow.

49:1 And Jarselves
together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in td hear, ye sons of Jacob; and
hearken unto Israel your father.

49:3 Reginning of my
strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellencyot excel; because thou wentest up to
thy father’s bed; then defiledsd Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their
habitations.
nto their assembly,
mine honour, be not thou united: for in their angeed down a wall.

49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and thacob, and scatter them in Israel.

49:8 Judah, thou art he whom thy br of thine enemies; thy father’s children shall bow down
before thee.son, thou art gone up:
he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as aeptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a
lawgiver from between his feeing of the people be.

49:11 Binding his foal unto the vine, and his aents in wine, and his clothes in the
blood of grapes: 49:12 His eyes slk.

49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall bnto Zidon.

49:14 Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two be land that it was
pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and becam his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.

49:17 Dan shall be a serh the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.

49:18 I havroop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the
last.

49:20 Outd royal
dainties.

49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodlfruitful bough by a well;
whose branches run over the wall: 49:23 The , and hated him: 49:24 But his bow abode
in strength, and the arms of ghty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of
Israel:)help thee; and
by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings ofnder, blessings of the breasts, and
of the womb: 49:26 The blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the
everlasting hills: they f the head of him that was separate from his brethren.

49:27 Benjaminevour
the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.

49:28 All thethat
their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one accordid he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered
unto my peoe cave that is in the
field of Ephron the Hittite, 49:30 In the cave that is in the field of
Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land othe field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a
buryingplace.

4 there they buried
Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leahhat is therein was
from the children of Heth.

49:33 And when Jacob haup his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was
gathered upon his father’s face, and wept upon him, and
kissed him.

50:2 And lm his
father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.

50:3 And forty dayhe
days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for himof his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto
the house of Pharaoh, say I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 50:5 My father made
me swigged for me in
the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therher, and I will come again.

50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury th Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all
the servathe elders
of the land of Egypt, 50:8 And all the house of Joseph, andr little ones, and their
flocks, and their herds, they left in the lanth chariots and horsemen: and it was
a very great company.

50:10 And s beyond
Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamven days.

50:11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites,is is a grievous mourning
to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it w12 And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 50:13
Ford buried him in
the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bougof Ephron the Hittite, before
Mamre.

50:14 And Joseph returned into Eith him to bury his father, after he had buried his
father.

50:15 Ands dead, they
said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainl him.

50:16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy fathero shall ye say unto Joseph,
Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of ee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the
trespass of the servants o spake unto him.

50:18 And his brethren also went and fell down beforvants.

50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the plagainst me; but God meant
it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is thisre fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little
ones.

And he comfJoseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father’s house: and
Joseph lived raim’s children of the third generation: the
children also of Machirh’s knees.

50:24 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God this land unto the land which he sware
to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jah of the children of Israel, saying, God
will surely visit you, and ye26 So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they
embalmypt.




The Second Book of Moses:  Called Exodus


1:1 Now these are to Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.

1:2 Reuben, Sinjamin, 1:4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

1:5 And all the souls ty
souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.

1:6 And Joseph died, and ahe children of Israel were fruitful, and increased
abundantly, and mulwas filled with them.

1:8 Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, wid unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of
Israel are mwisely
with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when  enemies, and fight
against us, and so get them up out of the land.

1 afflict them with
their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure fflicted them, the more they multiplied and
grew.

And they were grievgyptians made the children of Israel to serve with
rigour: 1:14 And thorter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all
th rigour.

1:15 And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of name of the other Puah: 1:16 And
he said, When ye do the office of a mools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: but
if it be a daughter, God, and did not as the king of Egypt
commanded them, but saved the md for the midwives, and said unto
them, Why have ye done this thing, a midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew
women are not as the Ered ere the midwives come in unto them.

1:20 Therefore God dealt welld waxed very mighty.

1:21 And it came to pass, because the midwives fharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is
born ye shallave
alive.

2:1 And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took toed, and bare a son: and when she saw him that
he was a goodly child, sot longer hide him, she took for him an ark of
bulrushes, and daubed ierein; and she laid it in the flags by the river’s brink.

2:4 And hne to him.

2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself er’s side; and when she
saw the ark among the flags, she sent her ma saw the child: and, behold, the
babe wept. And she had compassion on en.

2:7 Then said his sister to Pharaoh’s daughter, Shall I go and ay nurse the child for
thee?  2:8 And Pharaoh’s daughter said to herther.

2:9 And Pharaoh’s daughter said unto her, Take this child awaes. And the women took
the child, and nursed it.

2:10 And the child g
and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said,
Be to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he
went out unto hd
an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.

2:12 And he looe
was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.

2:13 And of the
Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wronge said, Who made thee a
prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to es feared, and said, Surely this thing
is known.

2:15 Now when Pharaooses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian:
aMidian had seven daughters: and they came and
drew water, and filled tAnd the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up
and helthey came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it that
ye are come sivered
us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enoughnto his daughters, And where is he? why is it that
ye have left the maes was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses
Zipporah his ded his name Gershom: for he
said, I have been a stranger in a strange , that the king of Egypt
died: and the children of Israel sighed by re came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

2:24 And God heard their God remembered his covenant
with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
 God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect
unto them Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest
of Midialed the flock to the backside of the desert, and
came to the mountain n to Horeb.

3:2 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flam out
of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burnre, and the bush was not consumed.

3:3 And Moses said, I will now turnd see this great sight,
why the bush is not burnt.

3:4 And when the hat he turned aside to see, God called unto
him out of the midst of thnd said, Moses, Moses. And he said,
Here am I.

3:5 And he said, Draw ither: put off thy shoes from off thy
feet, for the place whereon thou is holy ground.

3:6 Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, thbraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his faces afraid to look upon God.

3:7 And the LORD said, I have surely seen ction of my people
which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reasters; for I know their sorrows; 3:8 And I am come down to
deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up
out of that lnto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing
with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and the
Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and
the Jebusites.

3:9 Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come
unto me: and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians
oppress them.

3:10 Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou
mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.

3:11 And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh,
and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?
3:12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be a
token unto thee, that I have sent thee: When thou hast brought forth
the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.

3:13 And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of
Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me
unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? what shall I say
unto them?  3:14 And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said,
Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me
unto you.

3:15 And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the
children of Israel, the LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham,
thesaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is
my name forand this is my memorial unto all generations.

3:16 Go, and gather the Israel together, and say unto them,
The LORD God of your fathers, theAbraham, of Isaac, and of
Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have sure you, and seen
that which is done to you in Egypt: 3:17 And I have saibring
you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaathe Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the
Hivites, abusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey.

3:18 And they shallto thy voice: and thou shalt come, thou
and the elders of Israel, untoof Egypt, and ye shall say
unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath us: and now let us
go, we beseech thee, three days’ journey into thes, that we
may sacrifice to the LORD our God.

3:19 And I am sure thatof Egypt will not let you go, no, not
by a mighty hand.

3:20 And I wi out my hand, and smite Egypt with all my
wonders which I will do in tthereof: and after that he will
let you go.

3:21 And I will give thisple favour in the sight of the Egyptians:
and it shall come to pass, t ye go, ye shall not go empty.

3:22 But every woman shall borrow of hr, and of her that
sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewe and
raiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your
daugd ye shall spoil the Egyptians.

4:1 And Moses answered and said, But, they will not believe
me, nor hearken unto my voice: for they will saORD hath not
appeared unto thee.

4:2 And the LORD said unto him, What hand? And he
said, A rod.

4:3 And he said, Cast it on the ground. Anhe ground,
and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.

4:said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by
the tail. And heand, and caught it, and it became a
rod in his hand: 4:5 That they maye LORD God of their
fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and God of Jacob,
hath appeared unto thee.

4:6 And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand into
thy bosom. And he put his hand  his bosom: and when he took it
out, behold, his hand was leprous as s
4:7 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his
hand into his bosom again; and plucked it out of his bosom, and,
behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.

4:8 And it shall come to pey will not believe thee, neither
hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the
voice of the latter sign.

4:9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two
signs, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the
water of the rand pour it upon the dry land: and the water which
thou takest out of  become blood upon the dry land.

4:10 And Moses said unto the LORD, OD, I am not eloquent,
neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken uvant: but I
am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.

4:11 And the LORto him, Who hath made man’s mouth? or who
maketh the dumb, or deaf, ing, or the blind? have not I the
LORD?  4:12 Now therefore go, and I ith thy mouth, and teach
thee what thou shalt say.

4:13 And he said, , send, I pray thee, by the hand of him
whom thou wilt send.

4:14 And of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said,
Is not Aaron the  brother? I know that he can speak well.
And also, behold, he cometh feet thee: and when he seeth
thee, he will be glad in his heart.

4:15 shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and I
will be with tuth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye
shall do.

4:16 And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be,
even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him
instead of God.

4:17 And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt
do signs.

4:18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his fat law, and said
unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which
are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to
Moses, Go in peace.

4:19 And the LORD said unto Moses in Meturn into Egypt:
for all the men are dead which sought thy life.

4:20 And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass,
and d to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the rod of God in
his hand.

4: LORD said unto Moses, When thou goest to return into
Egypt, see that do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have
put in thine hand: bharden his heart, that he shall not let
the people go.

4:22 And thou to Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD, Israel is
my son, even my firstborn: e, Let my son go,
that he may serve me: and if thou refuse to let him  I will
slay thy son, even thy firstborn.

4:24 And it came to pass byin the inn, that the LORD met him,
and sought to kill him.

4:25 Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, and cut off the foreskin of her
son, and t it at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband art
thou to me.

4let him go: then she said, A bloody husband thou art,
because of the cn.

4:27 And the LORD said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moe went, and met him in the mount of God, and kissed him.

4:28 And Mosron all the words of the LORD who had sent him,
and all the signs whicommanded him.

4:29 And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together allers of
the children of Israel: 4:30 And Aaron spake all the words whic had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the
people.
the people believed: and when they heard that the LORD had
visited theof Israel, and that he had looked upon their
affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.

5:1 And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thus
saith the LORD God of Israel, Let my peoplo, that they may hold a
feast unto me in the wilderness.

5:2 And PharWho is the LORD, that I should obey his voice to
let Israel go? I knowORD, neither will I let Israel go.

5:3 And they said, The God of the hath met with us: let us go,
we pray thee, three days’ journey into  and sacrifice unto
the LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilith the
sword.

5:4 And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore doand
Aaron, let the people from their works? get you unto your burdens.Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and
ye makefrom their burdens.

5:6 And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmahe people,
and their officers, saying, 5:7 Ye shall no more give the pw
to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for
thems:8 And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye
shal them; ye shall not diminish ought thereof: for they be
idle; therefor, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.

5:9 Let there more workpon the men, that they may labour
therein; and let them not regard vai5:10 And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers,
ae people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not
give you straw.

5:11Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of your
work e diminished.

5:12 So the people were scattered abroad throughout all of
Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw.

5:13 And the taskmasterthem, saying, Fulfil your works, your
daily tasks, as when there was s14 And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh’s
taskm set over them, were beaten, and demanded, Wherefore
have ye not fulfitask in making brick both yesterday and to
day, as heretofore?  5:15 Tfficers of the children of Israel
came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying,re dealest thou thus with
thy servants?  5:16 There is no straw given  servants, and
they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants a but
the fault is in thine own people.

5:17 But he said, Ye are idle,le: therefore ye say, Let us
go and do sacrifice to the LORD.

5:18 Go now, and work; for there shall no straw be given
you, yet shall ye detale of bricks.

5:19 And the officers of the children of Israel did sey were
in evil case, after it was said, Ye shall not minish ought froks of your daily task.

5:20 And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood iway, as they came
forth from Pharaoh: 5:21 And they said unto them, Th look upon
you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhor
eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in
t

5:22 And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, LORD, wherefore hasvil entreated this people? why is it that thou hast sent me?
5:23 For me to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done
evil to this people; t thou delivered thy people at all.

6:1 Then the LORD said unto Moses thou see what I will do
to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he l and with a
strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.

6:2 And  unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the LORD: 6:3
And I appeared unto unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the name
of God Almighty, but by my na was I not known to them.

6:4 And I have also established my covenant, to give them
the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherere
strangers.

6:5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children whom
the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant.fore say unto the children of Israel, I am the LORD, and I
will bring m under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will
rid you out of their and I will redeem you with a stretched
out arm, and with great judgmend I will take you to me for a
people, and I will be to you a God: and w that I am the
LORD your God, which bringeth you out from under the bthe
Egyptians.

6:8 And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning I did
swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will  for an heritage: I am the LORD.

6:9 And Moses spake so unto the chilael: but they hearkened
not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for ge.

6:10 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:11 Go in, speak unth king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of
his landd Moses spake before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children of
Israel rkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who
am of uncircumcise:13 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto
Aaron, and gave them a chare children of Israel, and unto
Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the chirael out of the land
of Egypt.

6:14 These be the heads of their fathees: The sons of Reuben
the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezrmi: these
be the families of Reuben.

6:15 And the sons of Simeon; Jeamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanit these are the
families of Simeon.

6:16 And these are the names of thevi according to their
generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: ars of the
life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years.

6:17 TGershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their
families.

6:18 And the hath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel:
and the years of the lath were an hundred thirty and three
years.

6:19 And the sons of Meraand Mushi: these are the families
of Levi according to their generatio20 And Amram took him Jochebed his father’s sister to wife; and she
on and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were an
hundred and tnd seven years.

6:21 And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zi:22 And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.

6:23 Aook him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of
Naashon, to wife; ae him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and
Ithamar.

6:24 And the sons of Ko and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these
are the families of the Korhites.

6eazar Aaron’s son took him one of the daughters of Putiel
to wife; ae him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathers
of the Levites accoeir families.

6:26 These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD s out
the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their
27 These are they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out
t of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.

6:28 And it ca on the day when the LORD spake unto Moses in
the land of Egypt, 6:29 ORD spake unto Moses, saying, I am
the LORD: speak thou unto Pharaoh kpt all that I say unto
thee.

6:30 And Moses said before the LORD, Behm of uncircumcised
lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?  7:1 A said
unto Moses, See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh: and Aaron thshall be thy prophet.

7:2 Thou shalt speak all that I command thee: ay brother
shall speak unto Pharaoh, that he send the children of Israeis land.

7:3 And I will harden Pharaoh’s heart, and multiply my sigwonders in the land of Egypt.

7:4 But Pharaoh shall not hearken unto  I may lay my hand
upon Egypt, and bring forth mine armies, and my peoildren of
Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.

7:5 Anptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretch
forth mine hand uand bring out the children of Israel from
among them.

7:6 And Moses adid as the LORD commanded them, so did they.

7:7 And Moses was fourscld, and Aaron fourscore and three
years old, when they spake unto PharAnd the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 7:9 When
Pharaohak unto you, saying, Shew a miracle for you: then
thou shalt say unto e thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh,
and it shall become a serpent.
oses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as the
LORD had cnd Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, and
before his servants, ane a serpent.

7:11 Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcethe
magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their
enchan12 For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents:
but rod swallowed up their rods.

7:13 And he hardened Pharaoh’s heart,arkened not unto them;
as the LORD had said.

7:14 And the LORD said u Pharaoh’s heart is hardened, he
refuseth to let the people go.

7:1e unto Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goeth out unto the
water; and thtand by the river’s brink against he come; and
the rod which was turerpent shalt thou take in thine hand.

7:16 And thou shalt say unto hiD God of the Hebrews hath
sent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go, may serve me in
the wilderness: and, behold, hitherto thou wouldest n
7:17 Thus saith the LORD, In this thou shalt know that I am the LORD: will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters
which ariver, and they shall be turned to blood.

7:18 And the fish that is inshall die, and the river shall
stink; and the Egyptians shall lothe tothe water of the
river.

7:19 And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto  thy rod, and
stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon th,
upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools oft they may become blood; and that there may be blood
throughout all thEgypt, both in vessels of wood, and in
vessels of stone.

7:20 And Moson did so, as the LORD commanded; and he lifted
up the rod, and smote s that were in the river, in the sight
of Pharaoh, and in the sight ofts; and all the waters that
were in the river were turned to blood.

7e fish that was in the river died; and the river stank, and
the Egyptinot drink of the water of the river; and there was
blood throughout alof Egypt.

7:22 And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantmeaoh’s heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as the
Ld said.

7:23 And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did  heart to this also.

7:24 And all the Egyptians digged round about th water to
drink; for they could not drink of the water of the river.

even days were fulfilled, after that the LORD had smitten
the river.

e LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him,
Thus saith Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:2 And if thou refuse to , behold, I will smite all thy
borders with frogs: 8:3 And the river sforth frogs
abundantly, which shall go up and come into thine house, a
bedchamber, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, andpeople, and into thine ovens, and into thy kneadingtroughs:
8:4 And thall come up both on thee, and upon thy people, and
upon all thy servannd the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch forth thine
handrod over the streams, over the rivers, and over the
ponds, and cause fme up upon the land of Egypt.

8:6 And Aaron stretched out his hand ovrs of Egypt; and the
frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.

8:agicians did so with their enchantments, and brought up
frogs upon thegypt.

8:8 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Intreat hat he may take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and
I willpeople go, that they may do sacrifice unto the LORD.

8:9 And Moses saaraoh, Glory over me: when shall I intreat
for thee, and for thy servaor thy people, to destroy the
frogs from thee and thy houses, that theain in the river
only?  8:10 And he said, To morrow. And he said, Be ig to
thy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the d.

8:11 And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from thy houses, anervants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the river
only.

8:es and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried unto
the LORD becae frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh.

8:13 And the LORD did ao the word of Moses; and the frogs
died out of the houses, out of the  and out of the fields.

8:14 And they gathered them together upon heae land stank.

8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his
heart, and hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.

8:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy
rod, and smite the dust of the land, that it may become lice
throughout all the land of Egypt.

8:17 And they did so; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod,
and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man, and in
beast; all the dust of the land became lice through all the land of
Egypt.

8:18 And the magicians did so with their encho bring forth
lice, but they could not: so there were lice upon man, aast.

8:19 Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger ofPharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; as
thesaid.

8:20 And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morningd before Pharaoh; lo, he cometh forth to the water; and say unto
him,  the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:21 Else, if thnot let my people go, behold, I will send
swarms of flies upon thee, ay servants, and upon thy people,
and into thy houses: and the houses otians shall be full of
swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon th
8:22 And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which my
peo that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end thou
mayest know the LORD in the midst of the earth.

8:23 And I will put a division betple and thy people: to
morrow shall this sign be.

8:24 And the LORD d there came a grievous swarm of flies
into the house of Pharaoh, and irvants’ houses, and into all
the land of Egypt: the land was corrupton of the swarm of
flies.

8:25 And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaid, Go ye,
sacrifice to your God in the land.

8:26 And Moses said, Ieet so to do; for we shall sacrifice
the abomination of the Egyptians D our God: lo, shall we
sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians befeyes, and will
they not stone us?  8:27 We will go three days’ journe
wilderness, and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as he shall command uharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the
LORD your wilderness; only ye shall not go very far away:
intreat for me.

8:29old, I go out from thee, and I will intreat
the LORD that the swarms oand from his people, to morrow: but let not Pharaoh deal
deceitfully ae to the
LORD.

8:30 And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and intreated thord of Moses; and he removed
the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from hinot one.

8:32 And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neith said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and tell him,
Thus saith the LORmay serve me.

9:2 For if thou refuse to let them go, and wilt hold ththy cattle which is in the field,
upon the horses, upon the asses, upo
upon the sheep: there shall be a very grievous murrain.

9:4 And the l sever between the cattle of Israel and the
cattle of Egypt: and therthing die of all that is the
children’s of Israel.

9:5 And the LORDa set time, saying, To morrow the LORD
shall do this thing in the land the LORD did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of
Egypt dithe cattle of the children of Israel died not one.

9:7 And Pharaoh sebehold, there was not one of the cattle of
the Israelites dead. And thPharaoh was hardened, and he did
not let the people go.

9:8 And the Lnto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls
of ashes of the furnace Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven
in the sight of Pharaoh.

9:9 Andbecome small dust in all the land of Egypt, and shall
be a boil breakiith blains upon man, and upon beast,
throughout all the land of Egypt.d they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and
Moses it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breaking
forth with blains und upon beast.

9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses behe
boils; for the boil was upon the magicians, and upon all the
Egypti2 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not
unts the LORD had spoken unto Moses.

9:13 And the LORD said unto Moses, rly in the morning, and
stand before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus sORD God of the
Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

9:1ill at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and
upon thy send upon thy people; that thou mayest know that
there is none like me iearth.

9:15 For now I will stretch out my hand, that I may smite theepeople with pestilence; and thou shalt be cut off from the earth.

9:1 very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for to
shew in thee m and that my name may be declared throughout all
the earth.

9:17 As yst thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt
not let them go?  9: to morrow about this time I will cause
it to rain a very grievous hai hath not been in Egypt since
the foundation thereof even until now.

therefore now, and gather thy cattle, and all that thou hast
in the fiupon every man and beast which shall be found in the
field, and shall ght home, the hail shall come down upon
them, and they shall die.

9:2eared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh
made his servis cattle flee into the houses: 9:21 And he
that regarded not the wordORD left his servants and his
cattle in the field.

9:22 And the LORD oses, Stretch forth thine hand toward
heaven, that there may be hail iand of Egypt, upon man, and
upon beast, and upon every herb of the fiehout the land of
Egypt.

9:23 And Moses stretched forth his rod towardd the LORD
sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the groue
LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.

9:24 So there was hail, anled with the hail, very grievous,
such as there was none like it in alof Egypt since it
became a nation.

9:25 And the hail smote throughout land of Egypt all that was
in the field, both man and beast; and the  every herb of the
field, and brake every tree of the field.

9:26 Onland of Goshen, where the children of Israel were,
was there no hail.

araoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said unto
them, I haves time: the LORD is righteous, and I and my
people are wicked.

9:28 I LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mighty
thunderings and  let you go, and ye shall stay no
longer.

9:29 And Moses said unto his soon as I am gone out of the city, I
will spread abroad my hands unt; and the thunder shall
cease, neither shall there be any more hail; tayest know how
that the earth is the LORD’s.

9:30 But as for thee avants, I know that ye will not yet
fear the LORD God.

9:31 And the flbarley was smitten: for the barley was in
the ear, and the flax was bo2 But the wheat and the rie were not smitten: for they were not
grown  And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad
his hae LORD: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the
rain was not poured arth.

9:34 And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the the ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his
serva:35 And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the
ch Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.

10:1 And the LORD said u Go in unto Pharaoh: for I have
hardened his heart, and the heart of hs, that I might shew
these my signs before him: 10:2 And that thou mayn the ears
of thy son, and of thy son’s son, what things I have wroupt,
and my signs which I have done among them; that ye may know how th LORD.

10:3 And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto hsaith the LORD God of the Hebrews, How long wilt thou refuse to humbleefore me? let my people go, that they may serve me.

10:4 Else, if thoto let my people go, behold, to morrow will
I bring the locusts into t10:5 And they shall cover the face
of the earth, that one cannot be abhe earth: and they shall
eat the residue of that which is escaped, whith unto you
from the hail, and shall eat every tree which groweth for 
the field: 10:6 And they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of allants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; which neither thy
fathers, thers’ fathers have seen, since the day that they
were upon the earts day. And he turned himself, and went out
from Pharaoh.

10:7 And Phaservants said unto him, How long shall this man be
a snare unto us? leen go, that they may serve the LORD their
God: knowest thou not yet this destroyed?  10:8 And Moses and
Aaron were brought again unto Pharao said unto them, Go,
serve the LORD your God: but who are they that sh0:9 And
Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with ond with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go;
t hold a feast unto the LORD.

10:10 And he said unto them, Let the LOith you, as I will
let you go, and your little ones: look to it; for eore you.

10:11 Not so: go now ye that are men, and serve the LORD; fo
did desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh’s presence.

10:1 LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the
land of Egypt fusts, that they may come up upon the land of
Egypt, and eat every herband, even all that the hail hath
left.

10:13 And Moses stretched fort over the land of Egypt, and
the LORD brought an east wind upon the lat day, and all that
night; and when it was morning, the east wind broucusts.

10:14 And the locust went up over all the land of Egypt, and rl the coasts of Egypt: very grievous were they; before them there
wereocusts as they, neither after them shall be such.

10:15 For they covee of the whole earth, so that the land
was darkened; and they did eat b of the land, and all the
fruit of the trees which the hail had left: remained not any
green thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the fie all
the land of Egypt.

10:16 Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron and he said, I
have sinned against the LORD your God, and against youw therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and
intreat tur God, that he may take away from me this death
only.

10:18 And he wom Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

10:19 And the LORD turned a mightwest wind, which took away
the locusts, and cast them into the Red seamained not one
locust in all the coasts of Egypt.

10:20 But the LORD araoh’s heart, so that he would not let
the children of Israel go.

 the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward
heaven, that be darkness over the land of Egypt, even
darkness which may be felt.

d Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was
a thick  in all the land of Egypt three days: 10:23 They saw
not one another, se any from his place for three days: but
all the children of Israel h their dwellings.

10:24 And Pharaoh called unto Moses, and said, Go yhe LORD;
only let your flocks and your herds be stayed: let your littl go with you.

10:25 And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrificesofferings, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God.

10:26 Our cat shall go with us; there shall not an hoof be
left behind; for thereofke to serve the LORD our God; and
we know not with what we must serve  until we come thither.

10:27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh’s heartould not let them
go.

10:28 And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from eed to
thyself, see my face no more; for in that day thou seest my facalt die.

10:29 And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy 
no more.

11:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plaupon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence:
whe let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence
altogether.

11:2 Spn the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of
his neighbour, aoman of her neighbour, jewels of silver and
jewels of gold.

11:3 And ave the people favour in the sight of the
Egyptians.

Moreover the man very great in the land of Egypt, in the
sight of Pharaoh’s servantsthe sight of the people.

11:4 And Moses said, Thus saith the LORD, Abight will I go out
into the midst of Egypt: 11:5 And all the firstbornd of
Egypt shall die, from the first born of Pharaoh that sitteth upone, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is behind the
mill;he firstborn of beasts.

11:6 And there shall be a great cry throughouland of Egypt,
such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it an
11:7 But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move
h, against man or beast: that ye may know how that the LORD
doth put a e between the Egyptians and Israel.

11:8 And all these thy servants s down unto me, and bow down
themselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, e people that
follow thee: and after that I will go out. And he went oaraoh in a great anger.

11:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shrken unto you;
that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt. Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and
the LORD haaoh’s heart, so that he would not let the
children of Israel go out d.

12:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt
2 This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it
shall be thth of the year to you.

12:3 Speak ye unto all the congregation of Isrg, In the
tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a ding to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house: 12:4 And
if td be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbour
next unto his it according to the number of the souls;
every man according to his ea make your count for the lamb.

12:5 Your lamb shall be without blemisof the first year: ye
shall take it out from the sheep, or from the go6 And ye shall
keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month: ole
assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the eveninnd they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two side
posts apper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eat
it.

12:8 And the the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and
unleavened bread; and w herbs they shall eat it.

12:9 Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all wbut roast with
fire; his head with his legs, and with the purtenance t:10 And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; and
that neth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.

12:11 And thus at it; with your loins girded, your shoes on
your feet, and your staffand; and ye shall eat it in haste:
it is the LORD’s passover.

12:12l pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will
smite all the fi the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and
against all the gods of Egexecute judgment: I am the LORD.

12:13 And the blood shall be to you upon the houses where
ye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass ovu, and the plague
shall not be upon you to destroy you, when I smite t12:14 And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep feast to the LORD throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a
feaordinance for ever.

12:15 Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; e first day ye
shall put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever vened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul
shall  from Israel.

12:16 And in the first day there shall be an holy convo in
the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you; no mannk shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat,
that onlyne of you.

12:17 And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; s
selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt:
thll ye observe this day in your generations by an
ordinance for ever.

he first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even,
ye shall eened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the
month at even.

12:ays shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for
whosoever eateth is leavened, even that soul shall be cut
off from the congregation owhether he be a stranger, or born
in the land.

12:20 Ye shall eat notned; in all your habitations shall ye
eat unleavened bread.

12:21 Thelled for all the elders of Israel, and said unto
them, Draw out and taamb according to your families, and
kill the passover.

12:22 And ye sa bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood
that is in the bason, and slintel and the two side posts
with the blood that is in the bason; andu shall go out at
the door of his house until the morning.

12:23 For  will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when
he seeth the bloodlintel, and on the two side posts, the
LORD will pass over the door, aot suffer the destroyer to
come in unto your houses to smite you.

12:hall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to
thy sons for e And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which the
LORD you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keep
this service.
 it shall come to pass, when your children shall say unto
you, What mehis service?  12:27 That ye shall say, It is the
sacrifice of the LORDer, who passed over the houses of the
children of Israel in Egypt, whethe Egyptians, and
delivered our houses. And the people bowed the headhipped.

12:28 And the children of Israel went away, and did as the LOmanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.

12:29 And it came to pass, that t the LORD smote all the
firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firsharaoh that sat
on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that wdungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.

12:30 And Pharaoh rose up it, he, and all his servants, and
all the Egyptians; and there was a gr Egypt; for there was
not a house where there was not one dead.

12:31led for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up,
and get you forthng my people, both ye and the children of
Israel; and go, serve the LOhave said.

12:32 Also take your flocks and your herds, as ye have saigone; and bless me also.

12:33 And the Egyptians were urgent upon theat they might
send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We been.

12:34 And the people took their dough before it was leavened, thegtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.

12:35 ildren of Israel did according to the word of Moses;
and they borrowedyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of
gold, and raiment: 12:36 And tve the people favour in the
sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent uch things as
they required. And they spoiled the Egyptians.

12:37 Andren of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth,
about six hundred thoot that were men, beside children.

12:38 And a mixed multitude went h them; and flocks, and
herds, even very much cattle.

12:39 And they avened cakes of the dough which they brought
forth out of Egypt, for ieavened; because they were thrust
out of Egypt, and could not tarry, n they prepared for
themselves any victual.

12:40 Now the sojourning oren of Israel, who dwelt in
Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.
nd it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty
years, evselfsame day it came to pass, that all the hosts of
the LORD went out he land of Egypt.

12:42 It is a night to be much observed unto the LOinging
them out from the land of Egypt: this is that night of the LORDerved of all the children of Israel in their generations.

12:43 And taid unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of
the passover: There stranger eat thereof: 12:44 But every
man’s servant that is bought  when thou hast circumcised
him, then shall he eat thereof.

12:45 A fnd an hired servant shall not eat thereof.

12:46 In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth ought
of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone
thereof.

12:47 All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.

12:48 And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the
passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then let
him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the
land: for no uncircumcised person sht thereof.

12:49 One law shall be to him that is homeborn, and unto tr
that sojourneth among you.

12:50 Thus did all the children of IsraeLORD commanded Moses
and Aaron, so did they.

12:51 And it came to pasfsame day, that the LORD did bring
the children of Israel out of the lt by their armies.

13:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 13:2 Sto me all
the firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb among the childreael, both of man and of beast: it is mine.

13:3 And Moses said unto t Remember this day, in which ye
came out from Egypt, out of the house  for by strength of
hand the LORD brought you out from this place: theo leavened
bread be eaten.

13:4 This day came ye out in the month Abind it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of
the Cannd the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hivites,
and the Jebusites,sware unto thy fathers to give thee, a
land flowing with milk and honeou shalt keep this service in
this month.

13:6 Seven days thou shalt ened bread, and in the seventh
day shall be a feast to the LORD.

13:7d bread shall be eaten seven days; and there shall no
leavened bread bh thee, neither shall there be leaven seen
with thee in all thy quarte And thou shalt shew thy son in that day, saying, This is done
becauseich the LORD did unto me when I came forth out of
Egypt.

13:9 And it or a sign unto thee upon thine hand, and for a
memorial between thine  the LORD’s law may be in thy mouth:
for with a strong hand hath theht thee out of Egypt.

13:10 Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance on from year
to year.

13:11 And it shall be when the LORD shall bring the land of
the Canaanites, as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers,
give it thee, 13:12 That thou shalt set apart unto the LORD all that
he matrix, and every firstling that cometh of a beast which
thou hast; shall be the LORD’s.

13:13 And every firstling of an ass thou shalith a lamb; and
if thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his all
the firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem.

13:14 ll be when thy son asketh thee in time to come,
saying, What is this? shalt say unto him, By strength of
hand the LORD brought us out from E the house of bondage:
13:15 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hus go, that
the LORD slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, bothborn of man, and the firstborn of beast: therefore I sacrifice to
the hat openeth the matrix, being males; but all the
firstborn of my childm.

13:16 And it shall be for a token upon thine hand, and for frontle thine eyes: for by strength of hand the LORD brought us forth
out of :17 And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that
God ot through the way of the land of the Philistines,
although that was nod said, Lest peradventure the people
repent when they see war, and tho Egypt: 13:18 But God led
the people about, through the way of the wif the Red sea:
and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of theypt.

13:19 And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had st the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; and
ye sha carry up my bones away hence with you.

13:20 And they took their jou Succoth, and encamped in Etham,
in the edge of the wilderness.

13:21ORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to
lead them the wy night in a pillar of fire, to give them
light; to go by day and nighe took not away the pillar of
the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire from before the
people.

14:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,  unto the
children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pihahiren Migdol and the sea, over against Baalzephon: before it shall
ye encsea.

14:3 For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are
en the land, the wilderness hath shut them in.

14:4 And I will harden P heart, that he shall follow after
them; and I will be honoured upon Pd upon all his host; that
the Egyptians may know that I am the LORD. A so.

14:5 And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people,
and they have we done this, that we have let Israel go from
serving us?  14:6de ready his chariot, and took his people
with him: 14:7 And he took s chosen chariots, and all the
chariots of Egypt, and captains over evethem.

14:8 And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, 
pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel wentan high hand.

14:9 But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horsriots
of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them
eny the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.

14:10 And when Pharagh, the children of Israel lifted up
their eyes, and, behold, the Egyphed after them; and they
were sore afraid: and the children of Israel unto the LORD.

14:11 And they said unto Moses, Because there were no Egypt,
hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore haslt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt?  14:12 Is not this
tht we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we
may serve tns? For it had been better for us to serve the
Egyptians, than that wed die in the wilderness.

14:13 And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and
see the salvation of the LORD, which he will su to day: for
the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see themore for ever.

14:14 The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold 

14:15 And the LORD said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me?
she children of Israel, that they go forward: 14:16 But
lift thou up thstretch out thine hand over the sea, and
divide it: and the children oall go on dry ground through
the midst of the sea.

14:17 And I, beholl harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and
they shall follow them: and  me honour upon Pharaoh, and
upon all his host, upon his chariots, andhorsemen.

14:18 And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, whentten me honour upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his
horsemen. the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel,
removed and wthem; and the pillar of the cloud went from
before their face, and stothem: 14:20 And it came between
the camp of the Egyptians and the camp; and it was a cloud
and darkness to them, but it gave light by night  that the
one came not near the other all the night.

14:21 And Moses out his hand over the sea; and the LORD
caused the sea to go back by ast wind all that night, and
made the sea dry land, and the waters were
14:22 And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon
nd: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right
hand, and on tt.

14:23 And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midea, even all Pharaoh’s horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.

14:2came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked
unto the host tians through the pillar of fire and of the
cloud, and troubled the hoEgyptians, 14:25 And took off
their chariot wheels, that they drave th: so that the
Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; forighteth for them against the Egyptians.

14:26 And the LORD said unto etch out thine hand over the
sea, that the waters may come again upon ans, upon their
chariots, and upon their horsemen.

14:27 And Moses std forth his hand over the sea, and the sea
returned to his strength whrning appeared; and the Egyptians
fled against it; and the LORD overthyptians in the midst of
the sea.

14:28 And the waters returned, and c chariots, and the
horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came intfter
them; there remained not so much as one of them.

14:29 But the cIsrael walked upon dry land in the midst of
the sea; and the waters wento them on their right hand, and
on their left.

14:30 Thus the LORD  that day out of the hand of the
Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptiaon the sea shore.

14:31 And Israel saw that great work which the LORDhe
Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, avant Moses.

15:1 Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this songORD, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the LORD, for he hath
triumphly: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the
sea.

15:2 The LORength and song, and he is become my salvation:
he is my God, and I wilhim an habitation; my father’s God,
and I will exalt him.

15:3 The n of war: the LORD is his name.

15:4 Pharaoh’s chariots and his hoshe cast into the sea: his
chosen captains also are drowned in the Red  The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a
stone.

right hand, O LORD, is become glorious in power: thy right
hand, O LORshed in pieces the enemy.

15:7 And in the greatness of thine excellenst overthrown
them that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wh
consumed them as stubble.

15:8 And with the blast of thy nostrils twere gathered
together, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the de
congealed in the heart of the sea.

15:9 The enemy said, I will purs overtake, I will divide the
spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon th draw my sword, my
hand shall destroy them.

15:10 Thou didst blow wit, the sea covered them: they sank
as lead in the mighty waters.

15:11ke unto thee, O LORD, among the gods? who is like thee,
glorious in horful in praises, doing wonders?  15:12 Thou
stretchedst out thy right earth swallowed them.

15:13 Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the peopou hast
redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy
.

15:14 The people shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold bitants of Palestina.

15:15 Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; ten of Moab,
trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants ohall melt away.

15:16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the grethine
arm they shall be as still as a stone; till thy people pass overtill the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.

15:17 Thou shalm in, and plant them in the mountain of
thine inheritance, in the plac which thou hast made for thee
to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O LORD, hands have
established.

15:18 The LORD shall reign for ever and ever.or the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his
horsemee sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of the
sea upon them; butren of Israel went on dry land in the
midst of the sea.

15:20 And Mirprophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel
in her hand; and all tent out after her with timbrels and
with dances.

15:21 And Miriam ans, Sing ye to the LORD, for he hath
triumphed gloriously; the horse andhath he thrown into the
sea.

15:22 So Moses brought Israel from the Rnd they went out into
the wilderness of Shur; and they went three dayslderness,
and found no water.

15:23 And when they came to Marah, they drink of the waters
of Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the nams called
Marah.

15:24 And the people murmured against Moses, saying, l we
drink?  15:25 And he cried unto the LORD; and the LORD shewed himhich when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made
sweet: thede for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he
proved them, 15:2 If thou wilt diligently hearken to the
voice of the LORD thy God, andhat which is right in his
sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments all his
statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which upon the Egyptians: for I am the LORD that healeth thee.

15:27 And thme to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and
threescore and ten p and they encamped there by the waters.

16:1 And they took their jourlim, and all the congregation
of the children of Israel came unto the  of Sin, which is
between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the th after
their departing out of the land of Egypt.

16:2 And the wholeion of the children of Israel murmured
against Moses and Aaron in the s: 16:3 And the children of
Israel said unto them, Would to God we hadhe hand of the
LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh potn we
did eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.

16:4 Then said the LORD unBehold, I will rain bread from
heaven for you; and the people shall goather a certain rate
every day, that I may prove them, whether they wimy law, or
no.

16:5 And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day 
prepare that which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as
thr daily.

16:6 And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israe, then ye shall know that the LORD hath brought you out from the
land 16:7 And in the morning, then ye shall see the glory of
the LORD; for areth your murmurings against the LORD: and
what are we, that ye murmuus?  16:8 And Moses said, This
shall be, when the LORD shall give you ening flesh to eat,
and in the morning bread to the full; for that theth your
murmurings which ye murmur against him: and what are we? your
 are not against us, but against the LORD.

16:9 And Moses spake unto  unto all the congregation of the
children of Israel, Come near before for he hath heard your
murmurings.

16:10 And it came to pass, as Aarnto the whole congregation
of the children of Israel, that they lookede wilderness,
and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloudAnd the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 16:12 I have heard the
murmurinchildren of Israel: speak unto them, saying, At even
ye shall eat flesthe morning ye shall be filled with bread;
and ye shall know that I amyour God.

16:13 And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up,ed the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.

16: the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of
the wilderness a small round thing, as small as the hoar
frost on the ground.

16:15en the children of Israel saw it, they said one to
another, It is mann wist not what it was. And Moses said
unto them, This is the bread whiD hath given you to eat.

16:16 This is the thing which the LORD hath , Gather of it
every man according to his eating, an omer for every mang to
the number of your persons; take ye every man for them which arets.

16:17 And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more,.

16:18 And when they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered muchg over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they
gathered every mng to his eating.

16:19 And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till t

16:20 Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of thet until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: and Moses
was wrothm.

16:21 And they gathered it every morning, every man according to h and when the sun waxed hot, it melted.

16:22 And it came to pass, th sixth day they gathered twice
as much bread, two omers for one man: arulers of the
congregation came and told Moses.

16:23 And he said untis is that which the LORD hath said, To
morrow is the rest of the holyunto the LORD: bake that which
ye will bake to day, and seethe that yee; and that which
remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the m6:24 And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it did
nneither was there any worm therein.

16:25 And Moses said, Eat that toto day is a sabbath unto
the LORD: to day ye shall not find it in the :26 Six days ye shall gather it; but on the seventh day, which is
the  it there shall be none.

16:27 And it came to pass, that there went o the people on
the seventh day for to gather, and they found none.

16e LORD said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep my
commandments and 16:29 See, for that the LORD hath given you
the sabbath, therefore he you on the sixth day the bread of two
days; abide ye every man in hist no man go out of his place
on the seventh day.

16:30 So the people the seventh day.

16:31 And the house of Israel called the name thereoand it
was like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wawith honey.

16:32 And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD coFill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see
wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought
you forth fd of Egypt.

16:33 And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot, and put an of
manna therein, and lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for your
ge

16:34 As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the
Teo be kept.

16:35 And the children of Israel did eat manna forty yearsey
came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they came unto  of the land of Canaan.

16:36 Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephAnd all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from
the  of Sin, after their journeys, according to the
commandment of the LORched in Rephidim: and there was no
water for the people to drink.

17:e the people did chide with Moses, and said, Give us
water that we may Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with
me? wherefore do ye tempt the:3 And the people thirsted
there for water; and the people murmured ags, and said,
Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egyll
us and our children and our cattle with thirst?  17:4 And Moses cri LORD, saying, What shall I do unto this people? they be
almost ready e.

17:5 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go on before the people, and taee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest
the riin thine hand, and go.

17:6 Behold, I will stand before thee there up in Horeb;
and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water othat the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders.

17:7 And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, becaue chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the
LORDIs the LORD among us, or not?  17:8 Then came Amalek,
and fought with  Rephidim.

17:9 And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and goht
with Amalek: to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with theod in mine hand.

17:10 So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and foAmalek:
and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.

17:came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel
prevailed: and  down his hand, Amalek prevailed.

17:12 But Moses hands were heavy; aook a stone, and put it
under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hup his hands,
the one on the one side, and the other on the other side
hands were steady until the going down of the sun.

17:13 And Joshua  Amalek and his people with the edge of
the sword.

17:14 And the LORD Moses, Write this for a memorial in a
book, and rehearse it in the eaa: for I will utterly put
out the remembrance of Amalek from under hea5 And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it
Jehovahnissi: 17said, Because the LORD hath sworn that the
LORD will have war with Amaeneration to generation.

18:1 When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moser in law, heard of
all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel hisd that
the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt; 18:2 Then Jethro, Mosr in law, took Zipporah, Moses’ wife, after he had sent her back,
18 two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for
he said, I ha an alien in a strange land: 18:4 And the name of
the other was Elieze God of my father, said he, was mine
help, and delivered me from the saraoh: 18:5 And Jethro,
Moses’ father in law, came with his sons andnto Moses into
the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God: e
said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and tnd her two sons with her.

18:7 And Moses went out to meet his father d did obeisance,
and kissed him; and they asked each other of their wethey
came into the tent.

18:8 And Moses told his father in law all thad done unto
Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel’s sake, and allhe travail
that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivem.

18:9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done
to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.

18:10 And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you out
of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath
delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.

18:11 Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in the
thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them.

18:12 And Jethro, Moses in law, took a burnt offering and
sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, the elders of Israel, to
eat bread with Moses’ father in law before3 And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the
peopl people stood by Moses from the morning unto the
evening.

18:14 And w father in law saw all that he did to the people,
he said, What is t that thou doest to the people? why sittest
thou thyself alone, and alle stand by thee from morning unto
even?  18:15 And Moses said unto hin law, Because the people
come unto me to enquire of God: 18:16 When ta matter, they
come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and them
know the statutes of God, and his laws.

18:17 And Moses’ fathesaid unto him, The thing that thou
doest is not good.

18:18 Thou wiltar away, both thou, and this people that is
with thee: for this thing vy for thee; thou art not able to
perform it thyself alone.

18:19 Heanto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God
shall be with thee: Ber the people to God-ward, that thou
mayest bring the causes unto God:  thou shalt teach them
ordinances and laws, and shalt shew them the wa they must
walk, and the work that they must do.

18:21 Moreover thou ide out of all the people able men, such
as fear God, men of truth, hausness; and place such over
them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulereds, rulers of
fifties, and rulers of tens: 18:22 And let them judge t at
all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bthee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be
easier f, and they shall bear the burden with thee.

18:23 If thou shalt do thand God command thee so, then thou
shalt be able to endure, and all thshall also go to their
place in peace.

18:24 So Moses hearkened to thf his father in law, and did
all that he had said.

18:25 And Moses chen out of all Israel, and made them heads
over the people, rulers of t rulers of hundreds, rulers of
fifties, and rulers of tens.

18:26 Anded the people at all seasons: the hard causes they
brought unto Moses,y small matter they judged themselves.

18:27 And Moses let his fatherpart; and he went his way into
his own land.

19:1 In the third month,children of Israel were gone forth
out of the land of Egypt, the same ey into the wilderness
of Sinai.

19:2 For they were departed from Rep were come to the desert
of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; srael camped
before the mount.

19:3 And Moses went up unto God, and tlled unto him out of
the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the cob, and
tell the children of Israel; 19:4 Ye have seen what I did untians, and how I bare you on eagles’ wings, and brought you unto
myseNow therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my
covenant,  shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all
people: for all the eae: 19:6 And ye shall be unto me a
kingdom of priests, and an holy nati are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of
Israel.

19ses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid
before theil these words which the LORD commanded him.

19:8 And all the people agether, and said, All that the LORD
hath spoken we will do. And Moses he words of the people
unto the LORD.

19:9 And the LORD said unto Moscome unto thee in a thick
cloud, that the people may hear when I speak, and believe
thee for ever.

And Moses told the words of the people uRD.

19:10 And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctto day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes, 19:11 And
be ret the third day: for the third day the LORD will come
down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai.

19:12 And thou shalt set boundspeople round about, saying,
Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up mount, or touch
the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall put to
death: 19:13 There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall not
live: wrumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.

19:14 And Mosen from the mount unto the people, and
sanctified the people; and they heir clothes.

19:15 And he said unto the people, Be ready against the:
come not at your wives.

19:16 And it came to pass on the third day ning, that there
were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon and
the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people ththe camp trembled.

19:17 And Moses brought forth the people out of thmeet with
God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.

19:18  Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD
descended upon it i the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke
of a furnace, and the whole mked greatly.

19:19 And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, anouder
and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.

19:20ORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the
mount: and the LORD es up to the top of the mount; and Moses
went up.

19:21 And the LORD Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest
they break through unto the LO and many of them perish.

19:22 And let the priests also, which come e LORD, sanctify
themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.

19:es said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mount
Sinai: for tst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, and
sanctify it.

19:24 Andsaid unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt
come up, thou, and  thee: but let not the priests and the
people break through to come up, lest he break forth
upon them.

19:25 So Moses went down unto the pespake unto them.

20:1 And God spake all these words, saying, 20:2 I athy
God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the
bondage.

20:3 Thou shalt have no other gods before me.

20:4 Thou shae unto thee any graven image, or any likeness
of any thing that is in ove, or that is in the earth beneath,
or that is in the water under th0:5 Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I
the God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the
fathers upon the cnto the third and fourth generation of them
that hate me; 20:6 And she unto thousands of them that love
me, and keep my commandments.

20:7  not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the
LORD will not guiltless that taketh his name in vain.

20:8 Remember the sabbath day it holy.

20:9 Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: 20:10eventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not
do, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor
thy maidserthy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy
gates: 20:11 For in sie LORD made heaven and earth, the sea,
and all that in them is, and reeventh day: wherefore the
LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed i Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon
the h the LORD thy God giveth thee.

20:13 Thou shalt not kill.

20:14 Thoot commit adultery.

20:15 Thou shalt not steal.

20:16 Thou shalt notse witness against thy neighbour.

20:17 Thou shalt not covet thy neigse, thou shalt not covet
thy neighbours wife, nor his manservant, nor vant, nor his
ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbours.

all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and
the noise umpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the
people saw it, they remoood afar off.

20:19 And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, andear:
but let not God speak with us, lest we die.

20:20 And Moses saideople, Fear not: for God is come to
prove you, and that his fear may byour faces, that ye sin
not.

20:21 And the people stood afar off, andew near unto the
thick darkness where God was.

20:22 And the LORD saiThus thou shalt say unto the
children of Israel, Ye have seen that I he talked with you from
heaven.

20:23 Ye shall not make with me gods oneither shall ye make
unto you gods of gold.

20:24 An altar of earth  make unto me, and shalt sacrifice
thereon thy burnt offerings, and thfferings, thy sheep, and
thine oxen: in all places where I record my n come unto
thee, and I will bless thee.

20:25 And if thou wilt make mar of stone, thou shalt not build
it of hewn stone: for if thou lift uol upon it, thou hast
polluted it.

20:26 Neither shalt thou go up by  mine altar, that thy
nakedness be not discovered thereon.

21:1 Now t the judgments which thou shalt set before them.

21:2 If thou buy an vant, six years he shall serve: and in
the seventh he shall go out freing.

21:3 If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if heied, then his wife shall go out with him.

21:4 If his master have givife, and she have born him sons
or daughters; the wife and her childre her master’s, and he
shall go out by himself.

21:5 And if the serv plainly say, I love my master, my wife,
and my children; I will not ge: 21:6 Then his master shall
bring him unto the judges; he shall also to the door, or
unto the door post; and his master shall bore his earth an
aul; and he shall serve him for ever.

21:7 And if a man sell hir to be a maidservant, she shall not
go out as the menservants do.

21please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself,
then shall hbe redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation
he shall have no power, hath dealt deceitfully with her.

21:9 And if he have betrothed her u, he shall deal with her
after the manner of daughters.

21:10 If he tother wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty
of marriage, shall he nish.

21:11 And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go ithout money.

21:12 He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be so
death.

21:13 And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into;
then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.

21:14 But ime presumptuously upon his neighbour, to slay him
with guile; thou sham from mine altar, that he may die.

21:15 And he that smiteth his fats mother, shall be surely
put to death.

21:16 And he that stealeth a lleth him, or if he be found
in his hand, he shall surely be put to de7 And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be
put t21:18 And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone,
 fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed: 21:19 If he
rise again, anoad upon his staff, then shall he that smote
him be quit: only he shalthe loss of his time, and shall
cause him to be thoroughly healed.

21 a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he
die under hi shall be surely punished.

21:21 Notwithstanding, if he continue a dahe shall not be
punished: for he is his money.

21:22 If men strive, a woman with child, so that her fruit
depart from her, and yet no misch: he shall be surely
punished, according as the woman’s husband willhim; and he
shall pay as the judges determine.

21:23 And if any mischlow, then thou shalt give life for life,
21:24 Eye for eye, tooth for d for hand, foot for foot,
21:25 Burning for burning, wound for wound,r stripe.

21:26 And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eyeaid, that it perish; he shall let him go free for his eye’s sake.

2f he smite out his manservant’s tooth, or his maidservant’s
tooth;et him go free for his tooth’s sake.

21:28 If an ox gore a man or aat they die: then the ox shall
be surely stoned, and his flesh shall nn; but the owner of
the ox shall be quit.

21:29 But if the ox were wo with his horn in time past, and
it hath been testified to his owner,  not kept him in, but
that he hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shaed, and his
owner also shall be put to death.

21:30 If there be laid m of money, then he shall give for
the ransom of his life whatsoever i him.

21:31 Whether he have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, aco this judgment shall it be done unto him.

21:32 If the ox shall pushant or a maidservant; he shall
give unto their master thirty shekels o and the ox shall be
stoned.

21:33 And if a man shall open a pit, or a man shall dig a pit, and
not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall ther The owner of the
pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owne; and the
dead beast shall be his.

21:35 And if one man’s ox hurt as, that he die; then they shall
sell the live ox, and divide the moned the dead ox also
they shall divide.

21:36 Or if it be known that thused to push in time past,
and his owner hath not kept him in; he shalay ox for ox; and
the dead shall be his own.

22:1 If a man shall stea a sheep, and kill it, or sell it;
he shall restore five oxen for an o sheep for a sheep.

22:2 If a thief be found breaking up, and be smit die,
there shall no blood be shed for him.

22:3 If the sun be risen there shall be blood shed for him;
for he should make full restitutione nothing, then he shall
be sold for his theft.

22:4 If the theft be ound in his hand alive, whether it be
ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall rble.

22:5 If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and sn his beast, and shall feed in another man’s field; of the best
of hld, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make
restitution.

2 break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of
corn, or the st, or the field, be consumed therewith; he
that kindled the fire shall  restitution.

22:7 If a man shall deliver unto his neighbour money orkeep,
and it be stolen out of the man’s house; if the thief be founday double.

22:8 If the thief be not found, then the master of the houe
brought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto hiours goods.

22:9 For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for
sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing which another
chto be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the
judges; andudges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto
his neighbour.

22:10 Ifver unto his neighbour an ass, or an ox, or a
sheep, or any beast, to it die, or be hurt, or driven away,
no man seeing it: 22:11 Then shall the LORD be between them
both, that he hath not put his hand unto his goods; and
the owner of it shall accept thereof, and he shall not mak

22:12 And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto thereof.

22:13 If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witn shall not make good that which was torn.

22:14 And if a man borrow os neighbour, and it be hurt, or
die, the owner thereof being not with ll surely make it
good.

22:15 But if the owner thereof be with it, he make it good:
if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.

22:16 A entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with
her, he shall surel to be his wife.

22:17 If her father utterly refuse to give her unto ll pay
money according to the dowry of virgins.

22:18 Thou shalt not tch to live.

22:19 Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put t22:20 He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto the LORD only, he
shterly destroyed.

22:21 Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppresse were
strangers in the land of Egypt.

22:22 Ye shall not afflict any fatherless child.

22:23 If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cunto me, I
will surely hear their cry; 22:24 And my wrath shall wax hoill kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your
therless.

22:25 If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor bu shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him
us If thou at all take thy neighbours raiment to pledge, thou
shalt deli him by that the sun goeth down: 22:27 For that
is his covering only, raiment for his skin: wherein shall he
sleep? and it shall come to pas crieth unto me, that I will
hear; for I am gracious.

22:28 Thou shalle the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy
people.

22:29 Thou shalt not ffer the first of thy ripe fruits, and
of thy liquors: the firstborn oshalt thou give unto me.

22:30 Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxenthy sheep:
seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou
it me.

22:31 And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat  is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.

23:1 Tshalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the
wicked to righteous witness.

23:2 Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil;halt thou
speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment: 23r
shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.

23:4 If thou meet t’s ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt
surely bring it back to hi23:5 If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his
burdedest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with
him.

23:6 Thou wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.

23:7 Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous
slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.

23:8 And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and
perverteth the words of the righteous.

23:9 Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of
a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.

23:10 And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the
fruits thereout the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and
lie still; that the pooeople may eat: and what they leave
the beasts of the field shall eat. anner thou shalt deal with
thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.

23:1thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou
shalt rest: that td thine ass may rest, and the son of thy
handmaid, and the stranger, meshed.

23:13 And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspemake no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard outth.

23:14 Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.

2halt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat
unleavened brays, as I commanded thee, in the time
appointed of the month Abib; foru camest out from Egypt: and
none shall appear before me empty:) 23:16east of harvest,
the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown ld: and
the feast of ingathering, which is in the end of the year, whegathered in thy labours out of the field.

23:17 Three items in the ye males shall appear before the
LORD God.

23:18 Thou shalt not offer tf my sacrifice with leavened
bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifuntil the morning.

23:19 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thog into
the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in hs milk.

23:20 Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in d to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.

23:21 Beware ofbey his voice, provoke him not; for he will
not pardon your transgressy name is in him.

23:22 But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and t I
speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversarne adversaries.

23:23 For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring to the
Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanie Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.

23:24 Thou sha down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do
after their works: but thotterly overthrow them, and quite
break down their images.

23:25 And yrve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thy
bread, and thy water; anake sickness away from the midst of
thee.

23:26 There shall nothing c young, nor be barren, in thy
land: the number of thy days I will fulf:27 I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people
tu shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their
backs unto 28 And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the
Hiviaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.

23:29 I will not drive the before thee in one year; lest the
land become desolate, and the beastld multiply against
thee.

23:30 By little and little I will drive thebefore thee,
until thou be increased, and inherit the land.

23:31 And thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of
the Philistines, andesert unto the river: for I will
deliver the inhabitants of the land ind; and thou shalt
drive them out before thee.

23:32 Thou shalt make  with them, nor with their gods.

23:33 They shall not dwell in thy laey make thee sin
against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surnare
unto thee.

24:1 And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the LORD, td Aaron,
Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and wo ye
afar off.

24:2 And Moses alone shall come near the LORD: but theycome
nigh; neither shall the people go up with him.

24:3 And Moses ca the people all the words of the LORD, and
all the judgments: and all  answered with one voice, and
said, All the words which the LORD hath we do.

24:4 And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up eamorning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars,
accohe twelve tribes of Israel.

24:5 And he sent young men of the childrel, which offered
burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxhe LORD.

24:6 And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basons;f the blood he sprinkled on the altar.

24:7 And he took the book of t, and read in the audience of
the people: and they said, All that the aid will we do, and
be obedient.

24:8 And Moses took the blood, and s on the people, and
said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the made with
you concerning all these words.

24:9 Then went up Moses, anadab, and Abihu, and seventy of
the elders of Israel: 24:10 And they sof Israel: and there
was under his feet as it were a paved work of a stone, and as
it were the body of heaven in his clearness.

24:11 And uobles of the children of Israel he laid not his
hand: also they saw Go eat and drink.

24:12 And the LORD said unto Moses, Come up to me intt, and
be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and
ts which I have written; that thou mayest teach them.

24:13 And Mosesand his minister Joshua: and Moses went up
into the mount of God.

24:aid unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we come
again unto yohold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any man
have any matters to do, l unto them.

24:15 And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covernt.

24:16 And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cd it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of
the midcloud.

24:17 And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devourinhe top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.

24:18 And  into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into
the mount: and Mosese mount forty days and forty nights.

25:1 And the LORD spake unto Mos25:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, that they bring me an offering man that
giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offeringd this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and
silver, 25:4 And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
linen, and goats’ hnd rams’ skins dyed red, and badgers’
skins, and shittim wood, 25: the light, spices for anointing
oil, and for sweet incense, 25:7 Onyx and stones to be set in
the ephod, and in the breastplate.

25:8 And ake me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.

25:9 According to alew thee, after the pattern of the
tabernacle, and the pattern of all tnts thereof, even so
shall ye make it.

25:10 And they shall make an atim wood: two cubits and a
half shall be the length thereof, and a cublf the breadth
thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.

25u shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without
shalt thou overlshalt make upon it a crown of gold round
about.

25:12 And thou shalt ings of gold for it, and put them in
the four corners thereof; and twol be in the one side of
it, and two rings in the other side of it.

25ou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold.

25:u shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the
ark, that the borne with them.

25:15 The staves shall be in the rings of the ark:l not be
taken from it.

25:16 And thou shalt put into the ark the tesh I shall give
thee.

25:17 And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gubits and a
half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half t
thereof.

25:18 And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten 
thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat.

25:19 And make on on the one end, and the other cherub on the
other end: even of the meall ye make the cherubims on the
two ends thereof.

25:20 And the cherretch forth their wings on high,
covering the mercy seat with their wid their faces shall look
one to another; toward the mercy seat shall ts of the cherubims
be.

25:21 And thou shalt put the mercy seat above rk; and in the
ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give theend there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee
from abovy seat, from between the two cherubims which are
upon the ark of the t of all things which I will give thee in
commandment unto the children

25:23 Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shallngth thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit
and a half  thereof.

25:24 And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thown of gold round about.

25:25 And thou shalt make unto it a border oreadth round
about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border td
about.

25:26 And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and putin the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.

25:27 Over agaorder shall the rings be for places of the
staves to bear the table.

hou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold,able may be borne with them.

25:29 And thou shalt make the dishes thepoons thereof, and
covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal:gold shalt
thou make them.

25:30 And thou shalt set upon the table shfore me alway.

25:31 And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: work
shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bknops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.

25:32 And six branches  out of the sides of it; three
branches of the candlestick out of the  and three branches of
the candlestick out of the other side: 25:33 Thade like
unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and thrade like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in
anches that come out of the candlestick.

25:34 And in the candlesticke four bowls made like unto
almonds, with their knops and their flowerAnd there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a
knop uranches of the same, and a knop under two branches of
the same, accorde six branches that proceed out of the
candlestick.

25:36 Their knopsr branches shall be of the same: all it
shall be one beaten work of pu
25:37 And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall
ligps thereof, that they may give light over against it.

25:38 And the tof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of
pure gold.

25:39 Of a taf pure gold shall he make it, with all these
vessels.

25:40 And look ou make them after their pattern, which was
shewed thee in the mount.
over thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine
twined llue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of
cunning work shalt tho.

26:2 The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, anadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains
shall hasure.

26:3 The five curtains shall be coupled together one to anotheer five curtains shall be coupled one to another.

26:4 And thou shalts of blue upon the edge of the one
curtain from the selvedge in the cond likewise shalt thou
make in the uttermost edge of another curtain, ling of the
second.

26:5 Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtafty loops
shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the cothe second; that the loops may take hold one of another.

26:6 And thoke fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains
together with the tact shall be one tabernacle.

26:7 And thou shalt make curtains of goatso be a covering upon
the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make.
length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth
of one cr cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of
one measure.

26:9 Aalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six
curtains by themselveshalt double the sixth curtain in the
forefront of the tabernacle.

26:u shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain
that is outmosoupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the
curtain which coupleth the26:11 And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches
inps, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.

26:12 And the rmaineth of the curtains of the tent, the
half curtain that remaineth, ang over the backside of the
tabernacle.

26:13 And a cubit on the one a cubit on the other side of
that which remaineth in the length of th of the tent, it
shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this s that
side, to cover it.

26:14 And thou shalt make a covering for theams’ skins dyed
red, and a covering above of badgers’ skins.

26:1u shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood
standing up.

2ubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a
half shall be th of one board.

26:17 Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in against
another: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the taber6:18 And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards
uth side southward.

26:19 And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver twenty
boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and twunder another board for his two tenons.

26:20 And for the second sideernacle on the north side
there shall be twenty boards: 26:21 And theickets of silver;
two sockets under one board, and two sockets under and.

26:22 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt makes.

26:23 And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the taberne two sides.

26:24 And they shall be coupled together beneath, and the
coupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it b both; they shall be for the two corners.

26:25 And they shall be eig and their sockets of silver,
sixteen sockets; two sockets under one btwo sockets under
another board.

26:26 And thou shalt make bars of shd; five for the boards of
the one side of the tabernacle, 26:27 And fifor the boards of
the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for  of the
side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.

26:28 Ande bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from
end to end.

26:29 Aalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their
rings of gold for plae bars: and thou shalt overlay the bars
with gold.

26:30 And thou sha the tabernacle according to the fashion
thereof which was shewed theeunt.

26:31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarle twined linen of cunning work: with cherubims shall it be made:
26:32 shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood
overlaid with gold: ths shall be of gold, upon the four
sockets of silver.

26:33 And thou sup the vail under the taches, that thou
mayest bring in thither withinthe ark of the testimony: and
the vail shall divide unto you between tlace and the most
holy.

26:34 And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the testimony
in the most holy place.

26:35 And thou shalt set the taut the vail, and the
candlestick over against the table on the side ofnacle
toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north sidend thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, of
blue, and p scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with
needlework.

26:37 And tmake for the hanging five pillars of shittim
wood, and overlay them wid their hooks shall be of gold:
and thou shalt cast five sockets of brhem.

27:1 And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits live cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height
thereo three cubits.

27:2 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the fourhereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it
with7:3 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his
shovelsbasons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the
vessels thereof  make of brass.

27:4 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of upon
the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners th7:5 And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath,
thatay be even to the midst of the altar.

27:6 And thou shalt make stavesltar, staves of shittim wood,
and overlay them with brass.

27:7 And thall be put into the rings, and the staves shall
be upon the two sidesltar, to bear it.

27:8 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it wthee in
the mount, so shall they make it.

27:9 And thou shalt make the tabernacle: for the south
side southward there shall be hangings for court of fine twined
linen of an hundred cubits long for one side: 27e twenty
pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; tf the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.

27:11 And likewisnorth side in length there shall be
hangings of an hundred cubits longtwenty pillars and their
twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pilheir fillets of
silver.

27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the shall be
hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their socke7:13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be
fts.

27:14 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubitillars three, and their sockets three.

27:15 And on the other side shgings fifteen cubits: their
pillars three, and their sockets three.

2or the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty
cubits, of blueple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen,
wrought with needlework: and ars shall be four, and their
sockets four.

27:17 All the pillars rounhe court shall be filleted with
silver; their hooks shall be of silverr sockets of brass.

27:18 The length of the court shall be an hundred and the
breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of finenen, and their sockets of brass.

27:19 All the vessels of the tabernathe service thereof,
and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of theall be of
brass.

27:20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, bring
thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to .

27:21 In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, whichthe testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening
to mornithe LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their
generations on the the children of Israel.

28:1 And take thou unto thee Aaron thy broths sons with him,
from among the children of Israel, that he may minist in the
priest’s office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Itn’s sons.

28:2 And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brotory
and for beauty.

28:3 And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise om I have
filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaronnts
to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest’s
8:4 And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate,
ad, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle:
and they sholy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons,
that he may ministen the priest’s office.

28:5 And they shall take gold, and blue, andd scarlet, and
fine linen.

28:6 And they shall make the ephod of gold and of purple, of
scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work.
all have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two
edges thereoshall be joined together.

28:8 And the curious girdle of the ephod, won it, shall be
of the same, according to the work thereof; even of goue, and
purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

28:9 And thou shao onyx stones, and grave on them the names
of the children of Israel: of their names on one stone, and
the other six names of the rest on thone, according to their
birth.

28:11 With the work of an engraver in e the engravings of a
signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with tf the
children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of 12 And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the
ephod fof memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron
shall bear their na the LORD upon his two shoulders for a
memorial.

28:13 And thou shaltuches of gold; 28:14 And two chains of pure
gold at the ends; of wreathalt thou make them, and fasten
the wreathen chains to the ouches.

28u shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning
work; after the e ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of
blue, and of purple, and of sc of fine twined linen, shalt
thou make it.

28:16 Foursquare it shall ubled; a span shall be the length
thereof, and a span shall be the bref.

28:17 And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows  the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle:
this shalirst row.

28:18 And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, a.

28:19 And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

28:20fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they
shall be set in gor inclosings.

28:21 And the stones shall be with the names of the children of
Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a
signet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelve
tribes.

28:22 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of
wreathen work of pure gold.

28:23 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and
shalt put the two rings on he two ends of the breastplate.

28:24 And thou shalt put the two wreas of gold in the two
rings which are on the ends of the breastplate.

 And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shalt
fasten i ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the
ephod before it.

2thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them
upon the twthe breastplate in the border thereof, which is
in the side of the eph

28:27 And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put theo sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart thereof,
over agather coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of
the ephod.

28:28 Aall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto
the rings of the eplace of blue, that it may be above the
curious girdle of the ephod, an breastplate be not loosed
from the ephod.

28:29 And Aaron shall bears of the children of Israel in the
breastplate of judgment upon his he he goeth in unto the holy
place, for a memorial before the LORD conti8:30 And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and
th and they shall be upon Aaron’s heart, when he goeth in
before the Laron shall bear the judgment of the children of
Israel upon his heart  LORD continually.

28:31 And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod al
28:32 And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midst
therell have a binding of woven work round about the hole of
it, as it wereof an habergeon, that it be not rent.

28:33 And beneath upon the hem hou shalt make pomegranates of
blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, ro the hem thereof; and
bells of gold between them round about: 28:34 A ll and a
pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem ofround about.

28:35 And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sobe
heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the LORD, and whe out, that he die not.

28:36 And thou shalt make a plate of pure golde upon it,
like the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.

28: shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the
mitre; upon the  of the mitre it shall be.

28:38 And it shall be upon Aaron’s forehAaron may bear the
iniquity of the holy things, which the children of ll hallow
in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his for they may be accepted before the LORD.

28:39 And thou shalt embroiderof fine linen, and thou shalt
make the mitre of fine linen, and thou sthe girdle of
needlework.

28:40 And for Aaron’s sons thou shalt maknd thou shalt make
for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for tlory and
for beauty.

28:41 And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brohis sons
with him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanm, that they may minister unto me in the priest’s office.

28:42 Andt make them linen breeches to cover their
nakedness; from the loins evach: 28:43
And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they to the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near unto
the minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity,
and die: it  statute for ever unto him and his seed after
him.

29:1 And this is that thou shalt do unto them to hallow
them, to minister unto me in thes office: Take one young
bullock, and two rams without blemish, 29:2 Aened bread, and
cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleaveed
with oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.

29:3 And thou shaem into one basket, and bring them in the
basket, with the bullock andams.

29:4 And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of thle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.

29:5 And thoue garments, and put upon Aaron the coat,
and the robe of the ephod, and, and the breastplate, and
gird him with the curious girdle of the ep And thou shalt put
the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown uptre.

29:7 Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon hind anoint him.

29:8 And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon:9 And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and
put s on them: and the priest’s office shall be theirs for a
perpetual snd thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.

29:10 And thou shalt cauock to be brought before the
tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaronons shall put their
hands upon the head of the bullock.

29:11 And tholl the bullock before the LORD, by the door of
the tabernacle of the con.

29:12 And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put ithorns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside
the the altar.

29:13 And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inthe caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat
thathem, and burn them upon the altar.

29:14 But the flesh of the bulloc skin, and his dung, shalt
thou burn with fire without the camp: it isering.

29:15 Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shair hands upon the head of the ram.

29:16 And thou shalt slay the ram,halt take his blood, and
sprinkle it round about upon the altar.

29:1 shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of
him, and his legt them unto his pieces, and unto his head.

29:18 And thou shalt burn ram upon the altar: it is a burnt
offering unto the LORD: it is a sweean offering made by fire
unto the LORD.

29:19 And thou shalt take them; and Aaron and his sons shall
put their hands upon the head of the r Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it
upon f the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right
ear of his sonon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the
great toe of their righ sprinkle the blood upon the altar
round about.

29:21 And thou shalt e blood that is upon the altar, and of
the anointing oil, and sprinkleron, and upon his garments,
and upon his sons, and upon the garments o with him: and he
shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, as’
garments with him.

29:22 Also thou shalt take of the ram the fatump, and the
fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the live
two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder;
a ram of consecration: 29:23 And one loaf of bread, and one
cake of oi and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened
bread that is beforD: 29:24 And thou shalt put all in the
hands of Aaron, and in the handons; and shalt wave them for
a wave offering before the LORD.

29:25 Aalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon
the altar for a bung, for a sweet savour before the LORD: it
is an offering made by fireORD.

29:26 And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron’s
con and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and it
shall be thy 27 And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the
shthe heave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved
up, of the ramconsecration, even of that which is for Aaron,
and of that which is fos: 29:28 And it shall be Aaron’s and
his sons’ by a statute for evhe children of Israel: for it is
an heave offering: and it shall be anering from the children
of Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offen their heave
offering unto the LORD.

29:29 And the holy garments of l be his sons’ after him, to
be anointed therein, and to be consecram.

29:30 And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on s when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation to
minister in place.

29:31 And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and selesh in the holy place.

29:32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the fl ram, and the
bread that is in the basket by the door of the tabernaclongregation.

29:33 And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonade, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat
se they are holy.

29:34 And if ought of the flesh of the consecration of the bread,
remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remaiire:
it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.

29:35 And thus shalt to Aaron, and to his sons, according to
all things which I have commanseven days shalt thou
consecrate them.

29:36 And thou shalt offer eveullock for a sin offering for
atonement: and thou shalt cleanse the al thou hast made an
atonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanc29:37 Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and
sanctd it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheth
the altar shall 29:38 Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; two
lambirst year day by day continually.

29:39 The one lamb thou shalt offerrning; and the other lamb
thou shalt offer at even: 29:40 And with thea tenth deal of
flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beatenthe
fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering.

29:41 And theb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do
thereto according to the meatof the morning, and according
to the drink offering thereof, for a swe an offering made by
fire unto the LORD.

29:42 This shall be a continoffering throughout your
generations at the door of the tabernacle of gation before
the LORD: where I will meet you, to speak there unto thend there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the
tabernacle snctified by my glory.

29:44 And I will sanctify the tabernacle of theon, and the
altar: I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to mime
in the priest’s office.

29:45 And I will dwell among the childrel, and will be their
God.

29:46 And they shall know that I am the LORod, that brought
them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwellm: I am
the LORD their God.

30:1 And thou shalt make an altar to burnpon: of shittim
wood shalt thou make it.

30:2 A cubit shall be the leof, and a cubit the breadth
thereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cl be the height
thereof: the horns thereof shall be of the same.

30:3shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and
the sides thereobout, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt
make unto it a crown of gobout.

30:4 And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make
it;hall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.

30:5 And thou shthe staves of shittim wood, and overlay them
with gold.

30:6 And thou it before the vail that is by the ark of the
testimony, before the meat is over the testimony, where I
will meet with thee.

30:7 And Aaronn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he
dresseth the lamps, he  incense upon it.

30:8 And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he  incense
upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your
s.

30:9 Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifict offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.

30:10 And Al make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a
year with the bloodin offering of atonements: once in the
year shall he make atonement upughout your generations: it
is most holy unto the LORD.

30:11 And theke unto Moses, saying, 30:12 When thou takest
the sum of the children after their number, then shall they
give every man a ransom for his sothe LORD, when thou
numberest them; that there be no plague among themu
numberest them.

30:13 This they shall give, every one that passeth  that are
numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: ( twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD.

30one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twenty
years old ashall give an offering unto the LORD.

30:15 The rich shall not give mhe poor shall not give less
than half a shekel, when they give an offethe LORD, to make
an atonement for your souls.

30:16 And thou shalt tonement money of the children of
Israel, and shalt appoint it for the  the tabernacle of the
congregation; that it may be a memorial unto th of Israel
before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.

30:1ORD spake unto Moses, saying, 30:18 Thou shalt also
make a laver of br foot also of brass, to wash withal: and
thou shalt put it between thele of the congregation and the
altar, and thou shalt put water thereinor Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet
thereat: 3 they go into the tabernacle of the congregation,
they shall wash withat they die not; or when they come near
to the altar to minister, to bg made by fire unto the LORD:
30:21 So they shall wash their hands andt, that they die
not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, evend to
his seed throughout their generations.

30:22 Moreover the LORD soses, saying, 30:23 Take thou also
unto thee principal spices, of pureve hundred shekels, and of
sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundrty shekels, and
of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, 30:24 sia
five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oi hin: 30:25 And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, an
ointmen after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy
anointing oil.

 thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation
therewith, and tthe testimony, 30:27 And the table and all
his vessels, and the candleis vessels, and the altar of
incense, 30:28 And the altar of burnt off all his vessels,
and the laver and his foot.

30:29 And thou shalt sam, that they may be most holy:
whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy. thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them,
that they er unto me in the priest’s office.

30:31 And thou shalt speak unto n of Israel, saying, This
shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throuour generations.

30:32 Upon man’s flesh shall it not be poured, nei ye make
any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, al be holy unto you.

30:33 Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoth any of
it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.

the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices,
stacte, and onyalbanum; these sweet spices with pure
frankincense: of each shall there weight: 30:35 And thou
shalt make it a perfume, a confection after tthe apothecary,
tempered together, pure and holy: 30:36 And thou shalt of it
very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernaclcongregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you
most h7 And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make
to y according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto
thee holy for 
30:38 Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall
ev off from his people.

31:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:have called by
name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the trdah:
31:3 And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, andstanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
31:4 To unning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in
brass, 31:5 And iof stones, to set them, and in carving of
timber, to work in all mannekmanship.

31:6 And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son ch, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are wise
hearteut wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee; 31:7 Thee of the congregation, and the ark
of the testimony, and the mercy sea thereupon, and all the
furniture of the tabernacle, 31:8 And the tabl furniture, and
the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the acense,
31:9 And the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, aner and his foot, 31:10 And the cloths of service, and the holy
garmentn the priest, and the garments of his sons, to
minister in the prieste, 31:11 And the anointing oil, and
sweet incense for the holy place:  to all that I have
commanded thee shall they do.

31:12 And the LORD  Moses, saying, 31:13 Speak thou also
unto the children of Israel, sayy my sabbaths ye shall keep:
for it is a sign between me and you throur generations; that
ye may know that I am the LORD that doth sanctify 4 Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you:
every defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever
doeth any work that soul shall be cut off from among his
people.

31:15 Six days may; but in the seventh is the sabbath of
rest, holy to the LORD: whosoevrk in the sabbath day,
he shall surely be put to death.

31:16 Wherefoldren of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to
observe the sabbath throughgenerations, for a perpetual
covenant.

31:17 It is a sign between me ildren of Israel for ever: for
in six days the LORD made heaven and ean the seventh day he
rested, and was refreshed.

31:18 And he gave unten he had made an end of communing
with him upon mount Sinai, two tablimony, tables of stone,
written with the finger of God.

32:1 And whenople saw that Moses delayed to come down out of
the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and
said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for
this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we
wot not what is become of him.

32:2 And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which
are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters,bring them unto me.

32:3 And all the people brake off the golden earr were in
their ears, and brought them unto Aaron.

32:4 And he receiveheir hand, and fashioned it with a
graving tool, after he had made it lf: and they said, These
be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up land of Egypt.

32:5 And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before ion
made proclamation, and said, To morrow is a feast to the LORD.

32: rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt
offerings, and broughtferings; and the people sat down to eat
and to drink, and rose up to p And the LORD said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people,
whicroughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted
themselves: 32:8 Thrned aside quickly out of the way which I
commanded them: they have ma molten calf, and have worshipped
it, and have sacrificed thereunto, ahese be thy gods, O
Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land.

32:9 And the LORD said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and,
beis a stiffnecked people: 32:10 Now therefore let me alone,
that my wrahot against them, and that I may consume them:
and I will make of theenation.

32:11 And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, LORD, wh wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth
out od of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?
32:12 Wherefore she Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did
he bring them out, to sl the mountains, and to consume them
from the face of the earth? Turn ferce wrath, and repent of
this evil against thy people.

32:13 Remembe Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou
swarest by thine own seidst unto them, I will multiply your
seed as the stars of heaven, and and that I have spoken of
will I give unto your seed, and they shall i for ever.

32:14 And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought this people.

32:15 And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, andtables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written on
b sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.

32:16 Andes were the work of God, and the writing was the
writing of God, grave tables.

32:17 And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they e said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.

32:18 And he  not the voice of them that shout for mastery,
neither is it the voicehat cry for being overcome: but the
noise of them that sing do I hear.d it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that
he saw  and the dancing: and Moses’ anger waxed hot, and he
cast the tabless hands, and brake them beneath the mount.

32:20 And he took the calf had made, and burnt it in the
fire, and ground it to powder, and stran the water, and made
the children of Israel drink of it.

32:21 And Munto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that
thou hast brought so n upon them?  32:22 And Aaron said, Let
not the anger of my lord wax hknowest the people, that they
are set on mischief.

32:23 For they sai Make us gods, which shall go before us:
for as for this Moses, the maught us up out of the land of
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.d I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it
off. So it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came
out this calf.

3en Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron had
made them nakeeir shame among their enemies:) 32:26 Then
Moses stood in the gate of and said, Who is on the LORD’s
side? let him come unto me. And all t Levi gathered
themselves together unto him.

32:27 And he said unto taith the LORD God of Israel, Put
every man his sword by his side, and  out from gate to gate
throughout the camp, and slay every man his bro every man his
companion, and every man his neighbour.

32:28 And the f Levi did according to the word of Moses: and
there fell of the peopl about three thousand men.

32:29 For Moses had said, Consecrate yoursy to the LORD,
even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; thatestow
upon you a blessing this day.

32:30 And it came to pass on the at Moses said unto the
people, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I wunto the
LORD; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.

3Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people have
sinned a  and have made them gods of gold.

32:32 Yet now, if thou wilt forgive-; and if not, blot me,
I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast w2:33 And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me,
hblot out of my book.

32:34 Therefore now go, lead the people unto the which I have
spoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before theeless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.

32:35RD plagued the people, because they made the calf,
which Aaron made.

e LORD said unto Moses, Depart, and go up hence, thou and
the people wast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto
the land which I sware um, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying,
Unto thy seed will I give it: 33:2 l send an angel before
thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Ad the
Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: 33:3 U flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of
theu art a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the
way.

33:4 And people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and
no man did put on haments.

33:5 For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children e are a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of
thee in and consume thee: therefore now put off thy
ornaments from thee, that Ihat to do unto thee.

33:6 And the children of Israel stripped themselir ornaments
by the mount Horeb.

33:7 And Moses took the tabernacle, d it without the camp,
afar off from the camp, and called it the Taberhe
congregation. And it came to pass, that every one which sought the
out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which was
without the camnd it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle,
that all  rose up, and stood every man at his tent door, and
looked after Mosese was gone into the tabernacle.

33:9 And it came to pass, as Moses en the tabernacle, the
cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door ofrnacle, and
the Lord talked with Moses.

33:10 And all the people saw  pillar stand at the tabernacle
door: and all the people rose up and w every man in his tent
door.

33:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses face as a man speaketh
unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp:ervant
Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the
ta
33:12 And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring uple: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with
me. Yet thid, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found
grace in my sight.

therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight,
shew me nothat I may know thee, that I may find grace in
thy sight: and considernation is thy people.

33:14 And he said, My presence shall go with thwill give
thee rest.

33:15 And he said unto him, If thy presence go ne, carry us
not up hence.

33:16 For wherein shall it be known here th thy people have
found grace in thy sight? is it not in that thou goes so
shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that he face of the earth.

33:17 And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do to that
thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I by name.

33:18 And he said, I beseech thee, shew me thy glory.

33:19id, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I
will proclaim of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious
to whom I will be gracioll shew mercy on whom I will shew
mercy.

33:20 And he said, Thou cansmy face: for there shall no man
see me, and live.

33:21 And the LORD ld, there is a place by me, and thou
shalt stand upon a rock: 33:22 Anl come to pass, while my
glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a che rock, and
will cover thee with my hand while I pass by: 33:23 And I
away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall
nn.

34:1 And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone lie first: and I will write upon these tables the words that were
in theles, which thou brakest.

34:2 And be ready in the morning, and come umorning unto
mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top o.

34:3 And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seeut all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before
that mo4 And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Moses
rosein the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the
LORD had commande took in his hand the two tables of stone.

34:5 And the LORD descendecloud, and stood with him there,
and proclaimed the name of the LORD.
the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The
LORD God, and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in
goodness and truth, 34:7ercy for thousands, forgiving
iniquity and transgression and sin, and y no means clear
the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upondren,
and upon the children’s children, unto the third and to the foration.

34:8 And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the eartshipped.

34:9 And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O my LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; andr iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.

34:10 And hold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I
will do marvels, suchnot been done in all the earth, nor in
any nation: and all the people h thou art shall see the work
of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing  do with thee.

34:11 Observe thou that which I command thee this day:I drive
out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the HittitPerizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.

34:12 Take heed to thysethou make a covenant with the
inhabitants of the land whither thou goet be for a snare in
the midst of thee: 34:13 But ye shall destroy theibreak
their images, and cut down their groves: 34:14 For thou shalt wother god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:
34:15u make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and
they go a whor their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods,
and one call thee, and f his sacrifice; 34:16 And thou take
of their daughters unto thy sons,daughters go a whoring
after their gods, and make thy sons go a whorinir gods.

34:17 Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.

34:18 The feast ned bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou
shalt eat unleavened bread,nded thee, in the time of the
month Abib: for in the month Abib thou cfrom Egypt.

34:19 All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firs
thy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male.

34:20 But the firstliss thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and
if thou redeem him not, then shaeak his neck. All the
firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And nonppear before
me empty.

34:21 Six days thou shalt work, but on the sevthou shalt
rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.

34:22shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of
wheat harvest,feast of ingathering at the year’s end.

34:23 Thrice in the year shyour menchildren appear before the
LORD God, the God of Israel.

34:24ll cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy
borders: neither  man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up
to appear before the LORD rice in the year.

34:25 Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrificen;
neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left uing.

34:26 The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring ouse of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
mother’4:27 And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after
tf these words I have made a covenant with thee and with
Israel.

34:28s there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he
did neither eat  drink water. And he wrote upon the tables
the words of the covenant, mandments.

34:29 And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mounth
the two tables of testimony in Moses’ hand, when he came down from, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he
talked 
34:30 And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.

34:31 And led unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the
congregation returnm: and Moses talked with them.

34:32 And afterward all the children o came nigh: and he gave
them in commandment all that the LORD had spokim in mount
Sinai.

34:33 And till Moses had done speaking with them, ail on his
face.

34:34 But when Moses went in before the LORD to speam, he
took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake children of Israel that which he was commanded.

34:35 And the childrel saw the face of Moses, that the skin
of Moses’ face shone: and Mohe vail upon his face again,
until he went in to speak with him.

35:1s gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel
together, anto them, These are the words which the LORD hath
commanded, that ye shhem.

35:2 Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there s you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth
work ll be put to death.

35:3 Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habion the
sabbath day.

35:4 And Moses spake unto all the congregation ofren of
Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, sayake ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is of
a wil, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and
silver, and brad blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine
linen, and goats’ hair, 35ms’ skins dyed red, and badgers’
skins, and shittim wood, 35:8 Ande light, and spices for
anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, 35:9x stones, and
stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.nd every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that
the LORDmanded; 35:11 The tabernacle, his tent, and his
covering, his taches, ards, his bars, his pillars, and his
sockets, 35:12 The ark, and the seof, with the mercy seat,
and the vail of the covering, 35:13 The tabl staves, and all
his vessels, and the shewbread, 35:14 The candlestick the
light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the ligAnd the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil,
and the nse, and the hanging for the door at the entering in
of the tabernaclee altar of burnt offering, with his brasen
grate, his staves, and all ls, the laver and his foot, 35:17
The hangings of the court, his pillaeir sockets, and the
hanging for the door of the court, 35:18 The pinsbernacle,
and the pins of the court, and their cords, 35:19 The clothse, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron
the prthe garments of his sons, to minister in the priest’s
office.

35:20the congregation of the children of Israel departed from
the presence 
35:21 And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every
s spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD’s offering
to the w tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his
service, and for the  garments.

35:22 And they came, both men and women, as many as were wrted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets,
all gold: and every man that offered offered an offering of
gold unto the5:23 And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and
scarlet,linen, and goats’ hair, and red skins of rams, and
badgers’ skins,hem.

35:24 Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass b LORD’s offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim wood
fothe service, brought it.

35:25 And all the women that were wise heart with their
hands, and brought that which they had spun, both of blue,rlet, and of fine linen.

35:26 And all the women whose heart stirred  And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for
the ephastplate; 35:28 And spice, and oil for the
light, and for the anointin for the sweet incense.

35:29 The children of Israel brought a willing unto the LORD,
every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to all
manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the has.

35:30 And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD ha by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe
of Judand he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in
wisdom, in understandin knowledge, and in all manner of
workmanship; 35:32 And to devise cu, to work in gold, and
in silver, and in brass, 35:33 And in the cuttines, to set
them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunnin35:34 And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and
Ahoson of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.

35:35 Them hath he filled with heart, to work all manner of
work, of the engraver, and of the cunninand of the
embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in finnd of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those that
devg work.

36:1 Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise heartewhom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all
mank for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that
the LORD had.

36:2 And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted
ose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even every one whose
heart stirred  come unto the work to do it: 36:3 And they
received of Moses all the which the children of Israel had
brought for the work of the service otuary, to make it
withal. And they brought yet unto him free offeringsrning.

36:4 And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the saame every man from his work which they made; 36:5 And they spake unto
ing, The people bring much more than enough for the service
of the wore LORD commanded to make.

36:6 And Moses gave commandment, and they co be proclaimed
throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor womanmore
work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restraringing.

36:7 For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work  and too much.

36:8 And every wise hearted man among them that wrough of
the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, a and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work made he them.

36:9 The lne curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and the
breadth of one curtains: the curtains were all of one size.

36:10 And he coupled the five ce unto another: and the other
five curtains he coupled one unto anothend he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the
selvedge pling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of
another curtain, in t of the second.

36:12 Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty lhe in
the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second:s held one curtain to another.

36:13 And he made fifty taches of goldled the curtains one
unto another with the taches: so it became one ta36:14 And he made curtains of goats’ hair for the tent over the
tabeeven curtains he made them.

36:15 The length of one curtain was thirt and four cubits was
the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains wne size.

36:16 And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six cuthemselves.

36:17 And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of 
in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtainpleth the second.

36:18 And he made fifty taches of brass to couple together,
that it might be one.

36:19 And he made a covering for the ts’ skins dyed red, and
a covering of badgers’ skins above that.

3he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing
up.

36:21h of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a board
one cubit and 6:22 One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus
ke for all the boards of the tabernacle.

36:23 And he made boards for boards for the
south side southward: 36:24 And forty sockets of silveade under
the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tons, and
two sockets under another board for his two tenons.

36:25 And for the other side of the tabernacle, which is toward the
north corner, he made twenty boards, 36:26 And their forty sockets of
silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another
board.

36:27 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.

36:28 And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the
twos.

36:29 And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the hereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners.

36:30 And there were eight boards; and their sockets were sixteen
sockts of silver, under every board two sockets.

36:31 And he made bars o wood; five for the boards of the one
side of the tabernacle, 36:32 Ans for the boards of the
other side of the tabernacle, and five bars foe boards of the
tabernacle for the sides westward.

36:33 And he made e bar to shoot through the boards from the
one end to the other.

36:3verlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of
gold to be placears, and overlaid the bars with gold.

36:35 And he made a vail of blurple, and scarlet, and fine
twined linen: with cherubims made he it ofwork.

36:36 And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and oem with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four
sockver.

36:37 And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, anand scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework; 36:38 And
the five f it with their hooks: and he overlaid their
chapiters and their filleld: but their five sockets were of
brass.

37:1 And Bezaleel made the ttim wood: two cubits and a half
was the length of it, and a cubit ande breadth of it, and a
cubit and a half the height of it: 37:2 And he it with pure
gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it r.

37:3 And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the four
cit; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings
upon the oth it.

37:4 And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with  And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to
bear
37:6 And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half
wgth thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof.

37:7 And h cherubims of gold, beaten out of one piece made
he them, on the two emercy seat; 37:8 One cherub on the end
on this side, and another cheruother end on that side: out of
the mercy seat made he the cherubims onnds thereof.

37:9 And the cherubims spread out their wings on high, awith their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another;the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims.

37:10 And he made of shittim wood: two cubits was the length
thereof, and a cubit the beof, and a cubit and a half the
height thereof: 37:11 And he overlaid re gold, and made
thereunto a crown of gold round about.

37:12 Also hreunto a border of an handbreadth round about;
and made a crown of gol border thereof round about.

37:13 And he cast for it four rings of gt the rings upon
the four corners that were in the four feet thereof.
ver against the border were the rings, the places for the
staves to bele.

37:15 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them wold, to bear the table.

37:16 And he made the vessels which were upon, his dishes,
and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover wpure
gold.

37:17 And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten he
the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, aowers, were of the same: 37:18 And six branches going out of the
sidesthree branches of the candlestick out of the one side
thereof, and thr of the candlestick out of the other side
thereof: 37:19 Three bowls mthe fashion of almonds in one
branch, a knop and a flower; and three blike almonds in
another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout theches
going out of the candlestick.

37:20 And in the candlestick were ke almonds, his
knops, and his flowers: 37:21 And a knop under two brasame, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two
of the same, according to the six branches going out of it.

37:22 Theand their branches were of the same: all of it was
one beaten work of .

37:23 And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his
snuffdpure gold.

37:24 Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vesof.

37:25 And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length o cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and two
cubi height of it; the horns thereof were of the same.

37:26 And he overlth pure gold, both the top of it, and the
sides thereof round about, as of it: also he made unto it a
crown of gold round about.

37:27 And wo rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by
the two corners of the two sides thereof, to be places for
the staves to bear it withal.d he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with
gold.

37 made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of
sweet spices, ac the work of the apothecary.

38:1 And he made the altar of burnt offehittim wood: five
cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the beof; it
was foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof.

38:2 Andhe horns thereof on the four corners of it; the
horns thereof were of and he overlaid it with brass.

38:3 And he made all the vessels of ththe pots, and the
shovels, and the basons, and the fleshhooks, and the all the
vessels thereof made he of brass.

38:4 And he made for the aen grate of network under the
compass thereof beneath unto the midst o5 And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass,
to bor the staves.

38:6 And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlth
brass.

38:7 And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards.

38:8 And he mver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, of
the lookingglasses of thsembling, which assembled at the
door of the tabernacle of the congreg:9 And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings
of ere of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits: 38:10 Their
pillars were  their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of the
pillars and their fille silver.

38:11 And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cur pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the
hooks ofs and their fillets of silver.

38:12 And for the west side were hangiy cubits, their
pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the p their
fillets of silver.

38:13 And for the east side eastward fifty 38:14 The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits;
th three, and their sockets three.

38:15 And for the other side of the  on this hand and that
hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pie, and their
sockets three.

38:16 All the hangings of the court roundre of fine twined
linen.

38:17 And the sockets for the pillars were othe hooks of the
pillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlayir
chapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted


38:18 And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, of
burple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twenty
cubits was the ld the height in the breadth was five cubits,
answerable to the hangingourt.

38:19 And their pillars were four, and their sockets of brass f hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their
fillver.

38:20 And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court roundre of brass.

38:21 This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabtestimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses,
fvice of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron
the priest.
 Bezaleel the son Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,
made all LORD commanded Moses.

38:23 And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisama tribe of Dan,
an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer d in
purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.

38:24 All the gold that ed for the work in all the work of
the holy place, even the gold of th, was twenty and nine
talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, a the
sanctuary.

38:25 And the silver of them that were numbered of thtion
was an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescoeen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary: 38:26 A bekah
for evert is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the
sanctuary, for every one  be numbered, from twenty years
old and upward, for six hundred thousae thousand and five
hundred and fifty men.

38:27 And of the hundred tilver were cast the sockets of
the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vdred sockets of the
hundred talents, a talent for a socket.

38:28 Andusand seven hundred seventy and five shekels he
made hooks for the pilverlaid their chapiters, and filleted
them.

38:29 And the brass of thwas seventy talents, and two
thousand and four hundred shekels.

38:30ith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle
of the congregathe brasen altar, and the brasen grate for
it, and all the vessels of t8:31 And the sockets of the
court round about, and the sockets of the and all the pins
of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court roun39:1 And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of
ser service in the holy place, and made the holy garments
for Aaron; as tmanded Moses.

39:2 And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, a, and
fine twined linen.

39:3 And they did beat the gold into thin plut it into
wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in thand in the fine linen, with cunning work.

39:4 They made shoulderpiecto couple it together: by the
two edges was it coupled together.

39:5urious girdle of his ephod, that was upon it, was of the
same, accordirk thereof; of gold, blue, and purple, and
scarlet, and fine twined li LORD commanded Moses.

39:6 And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in gold, graven,
as signets are graven, with the names of the children of39:7 And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they should
br a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

 made the breastplate of cunning work, like the work of the
ephod; of , and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

39:9 It was foursqumade the breastplate double: a span was
the length thereof, and a spanh thereof, being doubled.

39:10 And they set in it four rows of stonest row was a
sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this was the first rowAnd the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.

39:12 And ow, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

39:13 And the fourth row, a nyx, and a jasper: they were
inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclo14 And the stones were according to the names of the children of
Israeaccording to their names, like the engravings of a
signet, every one we, according to the twelve tribes.

39:15 And they made upon the breasins at the ends, of
wreathen work of pure gold.

39:16 And they made tf gold, and two gold rings; and put
the two rings in the two ends of te.

39:17 And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two ringds of the breastplate.

39:18 And the two ends of the two wreathen chastened in the
two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the epe
it.

39:19 And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the two  breastplate, upon the border of it, which was on the side of the
epho39:20 And they made two other golden rings, and put them on the two
si ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over against
the other cereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.

39:21 And they did bindlate by his rings unto the rings of
the ephod with a lace of blue, thabe above the curious
girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate migosed from
the ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:22 And he made tthe ephod of woven work, all of blue.

39:23 And there was an hole in f the robe, as the hole of
an habergeon, with a band round about the h it should not
rend.

39:24 And they made upon the hems of the robe po of blue,
and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen.

39:25 And they mf pure gold, and put the bells between the
pomegranates upon the hem oround about between the
pomegranates; 39:26 A bell and a pomegranate, omegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in; as the
LORMoses.

39:27 And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aarohis sons, 39:28 And a mitre of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of
fine  linen breeches of fine twined linen, 39:29 And a
girdle of fine twine and blue, and purple, and scarlet, of
needlework; as the LORD command
39:30 And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and
wro a writing, like to the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS
TO THE LORD.
 they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten it on high upon
the mitreORD commanded Moses.

39:32 Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of of the
congregation finished: and the children of Israel did accordinhat the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.

39:33 And they brought thee unto Moses, the tent, and all
his furniture, his taches, his boards,and his pillars, and
his sockets, 39:34 And the covering of rams’ skred, and the
covering of badgers’ skins, and the vail of the coverine
ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat,
39ble, and all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread, 39:37
The pure cawith the lamps thereof, even with the lamps to
be set in order, and alsels thereof, and the oil for light,
39:38 And the golden altar, and ting oil, and the sweet
incense, and the hanging for the tabernacle dooe brasen
altar, and his grate of brass, his staves, and all his vesseler and his foot, 39:40 The hangings of the court, his pillars, and
hisnd the hanging for the court gate, his cords, and his
pins, and all thof the service of the tabernacle, for the
tent of the congregation, 39loths of service to do service in
the holy place, and the holy garmentn the priest, and his
sons’ garments, to minister in the priest’s 39:42 According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the children
l made all the work.

39:43 And Moses did look upon all the work, and,hey had done
it as the LORD had commanded, even so had they done it: alessed them.

40:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 40:2 On the of
the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of thetion.

40:3 And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and crk with the vail.

40:4 And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in hings
that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in theck, and light the lamps thereof.

40:5 And thou shalt set the altar ofthe incense before the
ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of ththe
tabernacle.

40:6 And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offerithe
door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.

40:7 And  set the laver between the tent of the congregation
and the altar, andt water therein.

40:8 And thou shalt set up the court round about, ane
hanging at the court gate.

40:9 And thou shalt take the anointing ooint the tabernacle,
and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it, andessels
thereof: and it shall be holy.

40:10 And thou shalt anoint thethe burnt offering, and all
his vessels, and sanctify the altar: and ie an altar most
holy.

40:11 And thou shalt anoint the laver and his fanctify it.

40:12 And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the do
tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water.

40:13 And t put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him,
and sanctify him; may minister unto me in the priest’s office.

40:14 And thou shalt bsons, and clothe them with coats: 40:15
And thou shalt anoint them, ast anoint their father, that
they may minister unto me in the priest’ for their anointing
shall surely be an everlasting priesthood through
generations.

40:16 Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD com, so
did he.

40:17 And it came to pass in the first month in the secon
the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up.

40:es reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets,
and set up the ereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared
up his pillars.

40:19 read abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put the
covering of the e upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:20 And he took and put theinto the ark, and set the
staves on the ark, and put the mercy seat ab40:21
And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail he
covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded
Moses.

40:22 And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the
side of the tabernacle northward, without the vail.

40:23 And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the
LORD had commanded Moses.

40:24 And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over
against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.

40:25 And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD ded
Moses.

40:26 And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congrfore the vail: 40:27 And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORD
cses.

40:28 And he set up the hanging at the door of the tabernacle.

he put the altar of burnt offering by the door of the
tabernacle of ththe congregation, and offered upon it the
burnt offering and the meat as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:30 And he set the laver between the t congregation and
the altar, and put water there, to wash withal.

40:s and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their
feet thereat: 40ey went into the tent of the congregation,
and when they came near untr, they washed; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

40:33 And he reared up tnd about the tabernacle and the
altar, and set up the hanging of the cte. So Moses finished the
work.

40:34 Then a cloud covered the tent oregation, and the glory
of the LORD filled the tabernacle.

40:35 And not able to enter into the tent of the
congregation, because the cloudereon, and the glory of the
LORD filled the tabernacle.

40:36 And whed was taken up from over the tabernacle, the
children of Israel went oll their journeys: 40:37 But if the
cloud were not taken up, then theyd not till the day that it
was taken up.

40:38 For the cloud of the Lon the tabernacle by day, and
fire was on it by night, in the sight ofouse of Israel,
throughout all their journeys.




The Third Book of Mled Leviticus


1:1 And the LORD called unto Moses, and spake unto himhe
tabernacle of the congregation, saying, 1:2 Speak unto the children, and say unto them, If any man of you bring an offering unto
the LORDbring your offering of the cattle, even of the
herd, and of the flock.is offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a
male with: he shall offer it of his own voluntary will at
the door of the tabehe congregation before the LORD.

1:4 And he shall put his hand upon t the burnt offering; and
it shall be accepted for him to make atonemen

1:5 And he shall kill the bullock before the LORD: and the priests,
ns, shall bring the blood, and sprinkle the blood round
about upon theat is by the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation.

1:6 And he sthe burnt offering, and cut it into his pieces.

1:7 And the sons of Apriest shall put fire upon the altar,
and lay the wood in order upon t:8 And the priests, Aaron’s
sons, shall lay the parts, the head, andin order upon the
wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar: 1:inwards
and his legs shall he wash in water: and the priest shall burnhe altar, to be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a
sweeto the LORD.

1:10 And if his offering be of the flocks, namely, of thr of
the goats, for a burnt sacrifice; he shall bring it a male withou.

1:11 And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before and the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall sprinkle his blood
round aboutaltar.

1:12 And he shall cut it into his pieces, with his head and hi the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire
whn the altar: 1:13 But he shall wash the inwards and the
legs with watepriest shall bring it all, and burn it upon
the altar: it is a burnt san offering made by fire, of a
sweet savour unto the LORD.

1:14 And i sacrifice for his offering to the LORD be of
fowls, then he shall briring of turtledoves, or of young
pigeons.

1:15 And the priest shall bo the altar, and wring off his
head, and burn it on the altar; and thereof shall be wrung
out at the side of the altar: 1:16 And he shall plop
with his feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, b of the ashes: 1:17 And he shall cleave it with the wings
thereof, butdivide it asunder: and the priest shall burn it
upon the altar, upon tat is upon the fire: it is a burnt
sacrifice, an offering made by fireet savour unto the LORD.

2:1 And when any will offer a meat offering RD, his
offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it frankincense thereon: 2:2 And he shall bring it to Aaron’s sons
thend he shall take thereout his handful of the flour
thereof, and of theof, with all the frankincense thereof;
and the priest shall burn the mt upon the altar, to be an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unD: 2:3 And the
remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron’s and hisit is a
thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

2: thou bring an oblation of a meat offering baken in the
oven, it shallened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or
unleavened wafers anoint.

2:5 And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in a pan, it shalle flour unleavened, mingled with oil.

2:6 Thou shalt part it in pieceil thereon: it is a meat
offering.

2:7 And if thy oblation be a meat ken in the fryingpan, it
shall be made of fine flour with oil.

2:8 Anlt bring the meat offering that is made of these
things unto the LORD:it is presented unto the priest, he
shall bring it unto the altar.

2:riest shall take from the meat offering a memorial
thereof, and shall on the altar: it is an offering made by
fire, of a sweet savour unto t:10 And that which is left of the meat offering shall be Aaron’s and: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made
by fire.meat offering, which ye shall bring unto the LORD, shall be
made with r ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any
offering of the LORD e.

2:12 As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them uD: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.

2:13 blation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with
salt; neither shalfer the salt of the covenant of thy God to
be lacking from thy meat ofh all thine offerings thou shalt
offer salt.

2:14 And if thou offer aring of thy firstfruits unto the
LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat o thy firstfruits green
ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beateull ears.

2:15 And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense tis a meat offering.

2:16 And the priest shall burn the memorial of ite beaten
corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankereof: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

3:1 And if his oa sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer
it of the herd; whether it r female, he shall offer it
without blemish before the LORD.

3:2 And ay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill
it at the door of acle of the congregation: and Aaron’s sons
the priests shall sprinkl upon the altar round about.

3:3 And he shall offer of the sacrifice e offering an
offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covererds, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, 3:4 And the two
kidneysfat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the
caul above the lihe kidneys, it shall he take away.

3:5 And Aaron’s sons shall burn altar upon the burnt
sacrifice, which is upon the wood that is on the  an
offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

3:6 And iring for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the
LORD be of the flock; male, he shall offer it without
blemish.

3:7 If he offer a lamb for h, then shall he offer it before
the LORD.

3:8 And he shall lay his hae head of his offering, and kill
it before the tabernacle of the congrd Aaron’s sons shall
sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the:9 And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an
offeri fire unto the LORD; the fat thereof, and the whole
rump, it shall he ard by the backbone; and the fat that
covereth the inwards, and all th is upon the inwards, 3:10
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upwhich is by the
flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys he
take away.

3:11 And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it iod of
the offering made by fire unto the LORD.

3:12 And if his offeri then he shall offer it before the
LORD.

3:13 And he shall lay his hahe head of it, and kill it before
the tabernacle of the congregation: ns of Aaron shall
sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round abouAnd he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by
fireLORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat
that is upon nwards, 3:15 And the two kidneys, and the fat that
is upon them, whichby the flanks, and the caul above the liver,
with the kidneys, it shalaway.

3:16 And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the f offering made by fire for a sweet savour: all the fat is the
LORD’s shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout
all yours, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.

4:1 And the LORD spake unto Mos 4:2 Speak unto the children
of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin thance against any
of the commandments of the LORD concerning things whiot to
be done, and shall do against any of them: 4:3 If the priest thated do sin according to the sin of the people; then let him bring
for e hath sinned, a young bullock without blemish
unto the LORD for a sin

4:4 And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle oegation before the LORD; and shall lay his hand upon the
bullock’s hand kill the bullock before the LORD.

4:5 And the priest that is anoi take of the bullock’s blood,
and bring it to the tabernacle of the n: 4:6 And the priest
shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle od seven
times before the LORD, before the vail of the sanctuary.

4:7priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the
altar of sweebefore the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of
the congregation; and s all the blood of the bullock at the
bottom of the altar of the burnt which is at the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation.

4:8 And hke off from it all the fat of the bullock for the
sin offering; the faereth the inwards, and all the fat that
is upon the inwards, 4:9 And tys, and the fat that is upon
them, which is by the flanks, and the cau liver, with the
kidneys, it shall he take away, 4:10 As it was taken he
bullock of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall b upon the altar of the burnt offering.

4:11 And the skin of the bullol his flesh, with his head,
and with his legs, and his inwards, and hi12 Even the whole
bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto ae,
where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire:ashes are poured out shall he be burnt.

4:13 And if the whole congregsrael sin through ignorance,
and the thing be hid from the eyes of theand they have done
somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORg things
which should not be done, and are guilty; 4:14 When the sin,  have sinned against it, is known, then the congregation shall
offer alock for the sin, and bring him before the tabernacle
of the congregatAnd the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the
headlock before the LORD: and the bullock shall be killed
before the LORD. the priest that is anointed shall bring of the bullock’s
blood to tle of the congregation: 4:17 And the priest shall
dip his finger in solood, and sprinkle it seven times
before the LORD, even before the vaind he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar
which ise LORD, that is in the tabernacle of the
congregation, and shall pour e blood at the bottom of the
altar of the burnt offering, which is at  the tabernacle of
the congregation.

4:19 And he shall take all his fhim, and burn it upon the
altar.

4:20 And he shall do with the bullocd with the bullock for a
sin offering, so shall he do with this: and t shall make an
atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them.

4:2hall carry forth the bullock without the camp, and burn
him as he burn first bullock: it is a sin offering for the
congregation.

4:22 When th sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance
against any of the commof the LORD his God concerning things
which should not be done, and is if his sin, wherein
he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; he shall bhis offering, a
kid of the goats, a male without blemish: 4:24 And he  his
hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where thhe burnt offering before the LORD: it is a sin offering.

4:25 And theall take of the blood of the sin offering with
his finger, and put it rns of the altar of burnt offering,
and shall pour out his blood at thf the altar of burnt
offering.

4:26 And he shall burn all his fat upor, as the fat of the
sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shalatonement
for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him. if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, while
he doethgainst any of the commandments of the LORD
concerning things which ouge done, and be guilty; 4:28 Or
if his sin, which he hath sinned, come nowledge: then he shall
bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a femablemish, for
his sin which he hath sinned.

4:29 And he shall lay his the head of the sin offering, and
slay the sin offering in the place o offering.

4:30 And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with h
and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall
pl the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar.

4:31 And he shall take fat thereof, as the fat is taken
away from off the sacrifice of peac; and the priest shall
burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour unto and the
priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiv:32 And if he bring a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring it a
fem blemish.

4:33 And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin off
slay it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt
off4 And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with
his d put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering,
and shall poure blood thereof at the bottom of the altar:
4:35 And he shall take awaat thereof, as the fat of the
lamb is taken away from the sacrifice ofofferings; and the
priest shall burn them upon the altar, according toings made
by fire unto the LORD: and the priest shall make an atonemenin that he hath committed, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:1 And if a and hear the voice of swearing, and is a
witness, whether he hath see of it; if he do not utter it,
then he shall bear his iniquity.

5:2 Ol touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcase of
an unclean beastse of unclean cattle, or the carcase of
unclean creeping things, and idden from him; he also shall
be unclean, and guilty.

5:3 Or if he toueanness of man, whatsoever uncleanness it
be that a man shall be defil and it be hid from him; when he
knoweth of it, then he shall be guiltif a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil, or to do
good, it be that a man shall pronounce with an oath, and it
be hid from him;noweth of it, then he shall be guilty in one
of these.

5:5 And it shan he shall be guilty in one of these things,
that he shall confess thasinned in that thing: 5:6 And he
shall bring his trespass offering unt for his sin which he
hath sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or e goats,
for a sin offering; and the priest shall make an atonement foerning his sin.

5:7 And if he be not able to bring a lamb, then he shfor his
trespass, which he hath committed, two turtledoves, or two you unto the LORD; one for a sin offering, and the other for a
burnt offe And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that
which ie sin offering first, and wring off his head from his
neck, but shall e it asunder: 5:9 And he shall sprinkle of
the blood of the sin offerie side of the altar; and the rest
of the blood shall be wrung out at tof the altar: it is a
sin offering.

5:10 And he shall offer the seconrnt offering, according to
the manner: and the priest shall make an at him for his sin
which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.

f he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young
pigeons, then ned shall bring for his offering the tenth
part of an ephah of fine flin offering; he shall put no oil
upon it, neither shall he put any fra thereon: for it is a
sin offering.

5:12 Then shall he bring it to thriest shall take
his handful of it, even a memorial thereof, and burn he altar,
according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: it isoffering.

5:13 And the priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his
sin that he hath sinned in one of these, and it shall be forgiven him:
and the remnant shall be the priest’s, as a meat offering.

5:14 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 5:15 If a soul commit a
trespass, and sin through ignorance, in the holy things of the LORD;
then he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD a ram without
blemish out of the flocks, with thy estimation by shekels of silver,
after tshekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.

5:16 And he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done in the
holy thing, and shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the
priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of
the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:17 And if a soul sin, and commit any of these things which are
forbidden to be done by the commandments of the LORD; though he wist
it not, yet is he guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.

5:18 And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with
thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest: and the
priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance
wherein he erred and wist it not, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:19 It is a trespass offering: he hath certainly trespassed against
the LORD.

6:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:2 If a soul sin, and
commit a trespass against the LORD, and lie unto his neighbour in that
which was delivered him to keep, or in fellowship, or in a thing taken
away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbour; 6:3 Or have found
that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in
any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein: 6:4 Then it shall
be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that
which he took violently away, or the thing which he hath deceitfully
gotten, or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing
which he found, 6:5 Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he
shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part
more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day
of his trespass offering.

6:6 And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, a ram
without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass
offering, unto the priest: 6:7 And the priest shall make an atonement
for him before the LORD: and it shall be forgiven him for any thing of
all that he hath done in trespassing therein.

6:8 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:9 Command Aaron and his
sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: It is the burnt
offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the
morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.

6:10 And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen
breeches shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the
fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall
put them beside the altar.

6:11 And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and
carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place.

6:12 And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it; it shall not
be put out: and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and
lay the burnt offering in order upon it; and he shall burn thereon the
fat of the peace offerings.

6:13 The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go
out.

6:14 And this is the law of the meat offering: the sons of Aaron shall
offer it before the LORD, before the altar.

6:15 And he shall take of it his handful, of the flour of the meat
offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is
upon the meat offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet
savour, even the memorial of it, unto the LORD.

6:16 And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with
unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of
the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.

6:17 It shall not be baken with l I have given it unto them for
their portion of my offerings made by f is most holy, as is the
sin offering, and as the trespass offering.

he males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It
shall be a stever in your generations concerning the
offerings of the LORD made by y one that toucheth them shall
be holy.

6:19 And the LORD spake unto ying, 6:20 This is the offering
of Aaron and of his sons, which they sr unto the LORD in the
day when he is anointed; the tenth part of an eine flour for
a meat offering perpetual, half of it in the morning, aneof
at night.

6:21 In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it ishou
shalt bring it in: and the baken pieces of the meat offering shalter for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

6:22 And the priest of his sons inted in his stead shall
offer it: it is a statute for ever unto the Lall be wholly
burnt.

6:23 For every meat offering for the priest shally burnt: it
shall not be eaten.

6:24 And the LORD spake unto Moses, :25 Speak unto Aaron and
to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sg: In the place
where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offerled
before the LORD: it is most holy.

6:26 The priest that offereth ishall eat it: in the holy
place shall it be eaten, in the court of the of the
congregation.

6:27 Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof soly: and when
there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any garmentlt
wash that whereon it was sprinkled in the holy place.

6:28 But theessel wherein it is sodden shall be broken: and
if it be sodden in a b it shall be both scoured, and rinsed
in water.

6:29 All the males amiests shall eat thereof: it is most
holy.

6:30 And no sin offering, w of the blood is brought into the
tabernacle of the congregation to reithal in the holy place,
shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fireewise this is the law of the trespass offering: it is most
holy.

7:2 ce where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill
the trespass off the blood thereof shall he sprinkle round
about upon the altar.

7:3 l offer of it all the fat thereof; the rump, and the
fat that covereths, 7:4 And the two kidneys, and the fat
that is on them, which is by tand the caul that is above
the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he ta5 And the priest
shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made bo the
LORD: it is a trespass offering.

7:6 Every male among the priesat thereof: it shall be eaten
in the holy place: it is most holy.

7:7n offering is, so is the trespass offering: there is one
law for them: that maketh atonement therewith shall have
it.

7:8 And the priest thany man’s burnt offering, even the
priest shall have to himself the e burnt offering which he
hath offered.

7:9 And all the meat offering baken in the oven, and all that
is dressed in the fryingpan, and in tall be the priest’s
that offereth it.

7:10 And every meat offering,ith oil, and dry, shall all the
sons of Aaron have, one as much as ano1 And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he
shunto the LORD.

7:12 If he offer it for a thanksgiving, then he shall the
sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and
uafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of
fine flour, frBesides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread
withfice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings.

7:14 And of it he shall out of the whole oblation for an
heave offering unto the LORD, and it he priest’s that
sprinkleth the blood of the peace offerings.

7:15 esh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for
thanksgiving shall be  same day that it is offered; he shall
not leave any of it until the m:16 But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary
offeall be eaten the same day that he offereth his
sacrifice: and on the mthe remainder of it shall be eaten:
7:17 But the remainder of the flesacrifice on the third day
shall be burnt with fire.

7:18 And if any oh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings
be eaten at all on the third accepted, neither
shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: it s an
abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquitAnd the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten;
it surnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean
shall eat therBut the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace
offerit pertain unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon
him, even that so cut off from his people.

7:21 Moreover the soul that shall touch anyhing, as the
uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominab
thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, whicunto the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his
people.

7:22 RD spake unto Moses, saying, 7:23 Speak unto the
children of Israel, sshall eat no manner of fat, of ox, or
of sheep, or of goat.

7:24 And  the beast that dieth of itself, and the fat of
that which is torn witmay be used in any other use: but ye
shall in no wise eat of it.

7:25ver eateth the fat of the beast, of which men offer an
offering made bo the LORD, even the soul that eateth it
shall be cut off from his peoMoreover ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of fowl
or of  any of your dwellings.

7:27 Whatsoever soul it be that eateth any maood, even that
soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:28 And the LOunto Moses, saying, 7:29 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, Hereth the sacrifice of his
peace offerings unto the LORD shall bring hin unto the LORD
of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.

7:30 His ownll bring the offerings of the LORD made by fire,
the fat with the breall he bring, that the breast may be
waved for a wave offering before t
7:31 And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breastAaron’s and his sons’.

7:32 And the right shoulder shall ye give iest for an heave
offering of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the peace
offering fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part.

7:34 For the wave bhe heave shoulder have I taken of the
children of Israel from off the of their peace offerings,
and have given them unto Aaron the priest an sons by a
statute for ever from among the children of Israel.

7:35 T portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the
anointing of his sons, e offerings of the LORD made by fire,
in the day when he presented theter unto the LORD in the
priest’s office; 7:36 Which the LORD commane given them of the
children of Israel, in the day that he anointed thtatute for
ever throughout their generations.

7:37 This is the law of offering, of the meat offering, and
of the sin offering, and of the tering, and of the
consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace off38 Which
the LORD commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he che children of Israel to offer their oblations unto the LORD, in the
wof Sinai.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:2 Take Aaron as
with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and a bullock forffering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread; 8:3
And gathel the congregation together unto the door of the
tabernacle of the con

8:4 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; and the assembly was
gagether unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

8:5 And Munto the congregation, This is the thing which the
LORD commanded to b6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.

8put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and
clothed himobe, and put the ephod upon him, and he girded
him with the curious gi ephod, and bound it unto him
therewith.

8:8 And he put the breastplam: also he put in the
breastplate the Urim and the Thummim.

8:9 And hmitre upon his head; also upon the mitre, even upon
his forefront, dide golden plate, the holy crown; as the
LORD commanded Moses.

8:10 Andk the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and
all that was thernctified them.

8:11 And he sprinkled thereof upon the altar seven timointed
the altar and all his vessels, both the laver and his foot, to


8:12 And he poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron’s head, and
anoo sanctify him.

8:13 And Moses brought Aaron’s sons, and put coats  and
girded them with girdles, and put bonnets upon them; as the LORD
Moses.

8:14 And he brought the bullock for the sin offering: and Aarosons laid their hands upon the head of the bullock for the sin
offerind he slew it; and Moses took the blood, and put it upon the
horns of tund about with his finger, and purified the
altar, and poured the blooottom of the altar, and sanctified
it, to make reconciliation upon it. he took all the fat that was upon the inwards, and the caul
above thed the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned
it upon the altar.
the bullock, and his hide, his flesh, and his dung, he burnt
with firehe camp; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:18 And he brought the ram for offering: and Aaron and his
sons laid their hands upon the head of th19 And he killed it; and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar
roun8:20 And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moses burnt the head, and thend the fat.

8:21 And he washed the inwards and the legs in water; andt
the whole ram upon the altar: it was a burnt sacrifice for a sweet
san offering made by fire unto the LORD; as the LORD
commanded Moses.

 brought the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron
and his sonir hands upon the head of the ram.

8:23 And he slew it; and Moses toood of it, and put it
upon the tip of Aaron’s right ear, and upon theis right
hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.

8:24 And he on’s sons, and Moses put of the blood upon the
tip of their right ea the thumbs of their right hands, and
upon the great toes of their rigd Moses sprinkled the blood
upon the altar round about.

8:25 And he tt, and the rump, and all the fat that was upon
the inwards, and the ca the liver, and the two kidneys, and
their fat, and the right shoulderout of the basket of
unleavened bread, that was before the LORD, he toavened
cake, and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them onand upon the right shoulder: 8:27 And he put all upon Aaron’s
hands,his sons’ hands, and waved them for a wave offering
before the LORD.m off their hands, and burnt them on the
altar upon the burnt offering is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

8:29 And Moses took the bLORD: for of the ram of consecration it was Moses’ part; as
the LORDing oil, and of the blood which was
upon the altar, and sprinkled it u, and upon his sons’ garments with him; and
sanctified Aaron, and hi with him.

8:31 And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons, Boil the fcongregation: and there eat it with the
bread that is in the basket ofd his sons shall eat it.

8:32 And that which remaineth of the flesh ad ye shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the
congregatio be at
an end: for seven days shall he consecrate you.

8:34 As he hatmake an atonement for you.

8:35 Therefore shall ye abide at the door t seven days, and keep the charge of the
LORD, that ye die not: for soid all things which the LORD commanded by
the hand of Moses.

9:1 And d Aaron and
his sons, and the elders of Israel; 9:2 And he said unto And a ram for a burnt offering,
without blemish, and offer them before alt speak, saying, Take ye
a kid of the goats for a sin offering; and t blemish, for a burnt offering; 9:4 Also a
bullock and a ram for peac meat offering mingled with oil: for to day the LORD will appear
unto ded before the tabernacle
of the congregation: and all the congregatioses said, This is the thing which the LORD commanded that ye
should do

9:7 And Moses said unto Aaron, Go unto the altar, and offer thy sin
ment for thyself,
and for the people: and offer the offering of the peanded.

9:8 Aaron therefore went unto the altar, and slew the calf of  the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him: and he dipped
his fingear, and
poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar: 9:10 But the f the sin offering, he
burnt upon the altar; as the LORD commanded Mos without the camp.

9:12 And he slew the burnt offering; and Aaron’sed round about upon the altar.

9:13 And they presented the burnt offe burnt them upon the altar.

9:14 And he did wash the inwards and the altar.

9:15 And he brought the people’s offering, and took the goatslew it, and offered it for
sin, as the first.

9:16 And he brought thner.

9:17 And he brought the meat offering, and took an handful thereurnt sacrifice of the
morning.

9:18 He slew also the bullock and the  for the people: and Aaron’s sons presented unto
him the blood, whicnd
the fat of the bullock and of the ram, the rump, and that which
cov, and the caul above the liver:
9:20 And they put the fat upon the breand he burnt the fat upon
the altar: 9:21 And the breasts and the righ shoulder Aaron waved for
a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses coded.

9:22 And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people, and blessed them,
and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt
offering, and peace offerings.

9:23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation,
and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the LORD
appeared unto all the people.

9:24 And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and consumed upon
the altar the burnt offering and the fat: which when all the people
saw, they sho, and fell on their faces.

10:1 And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaroher of them his
censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon,d
strange fire before the LORD, which he commanded them not.

10:2 Andt out fire from the LORD, and devoured them, and
they died before the  Then Moses said unto Aaron, This is it that the LORD spake,
saying, Ianctified in them that come nigh me, and before all
the people I will d. And Aaron held his peace.

10:4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaph of Uzziel the
uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Come near, carry yo
from before the sanctuary out of the camp.

10:5 So they went near, a them in their coats out of the
camp; as Moses had said.

10:6 And Mosunto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his
sons, Uncover not y neither rend your clothes; lest ye die,
and lest wrath come upon all : but let your brethren, the
whole house of Israel, bewail the burning LORD hath kindled.

10:7 And ye shall not go out from the door of the of the
congregation, lest ye die: for the anointing oil of the LORD i And they did according to the word of Moses.

10:8 And the LORD spake, saying, 10:9 Do not drink wine nor
strong drink, thou, nor thy sons when ye go into the
tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: it shtatute for
ever throughout your generations: 10:10 And that ye may put
between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean; 10:11 And thach the children of Israel all the statutes which the LORD
hath spoken by the hand of Moses.

10:12 And Moses spake unto Aaron, and unto Eleao Ithamar,
his sons that were left, Take the meat offering that remainofferings of the LORD made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside
tor it is most holy: 10:13 And ye shall eat it in the holy
place, becauy due, and thy sons’ due, of the sacrifices of
the LORD made by fire am commanded.

10:14 And the wave breast and heave shoulder shall ye lean
place; thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee: for they e, and thy sons’ due, which are given out of the sacrifices of
peaces of the children of Israel.

10:15 The heave shoulder and the wave brthey bring with the
offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for ering
before the LORD; and it shall be thine, and thy sons’ with thetute for ever; as the LORD hath commanded.

10:16 And Moses diligentlyhe goat of the sin offering, and,
behold, it was burnt: and he was angeazar and Ithamar, the
sons of Aaron which were left alive, saying, 10erefore have ye
not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, seeing iholy,
and God hath given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregati atonement for them before the LORD?  10:18 Behold, the blood of
it waught in within the holy place: ye should indeed have
eaten it in the h as I commanded.

10:19 And Aaron said unto Moses, Behold, this day haered
their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD; and efallen me: and if I had eaten the sin offering to day,
should it haveed in the sight of the LORD?  10:20 And when
Moses heard that, he was 

11:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying unto them,
1unto the children of Israel, saying, These are the beasts
which ye shang all the beasts that are on the earth.

11:3 Whatsoever parteth the is clovenfooted, and cheweth the
cud, among the beasts, that shall ye 4 Nevertheless these shall ye not eat of them that chew the cud, or
of divide the hoof: as the camel, because he cheweth the
cud, but divide hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:5 And the coney, because he chewethbut divideth not the
hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:6 And the hare,e cheweth the cud, but divideth not the
hoof; he is unclean unto you.
he swine, though he divide the hoof, and be clovenfooted,
yet he chewe cud; he is unclean to you.

11:8 Of their flesh shall ye not eat, andcase shall ye not
touch; they are unclean to you.

11:9 These shall yel that are in the waters: whatsoever hath
fins and scales in the water seas, and in the rivers, them
shall ye eat.

11:10 And all that have d scales in the seas, and in the
rivers, of all that move in the waterny living thing which
is in the waters, they shall be an abomination u11 They
shall be even an abomination unto you; ye shall not eat of the but ye shall have their carcases in abomination.

11:12 Whatsoever hanor scales in the waters, that shall be
an abomination unto you.

11:1e are they which ye shall have in abomination among the
fowls; they sh eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle,
and the ossifrage, and the1:14 And the vulture, and the kite
after his kind; 11:15 Every raven aind; 11:16 And the owl,
and the night hawk, and the cuckow, and the has kind, 11:17
And the little owl, and the cormorant, and the great owld
the swan, and the pelican, and the gier eagle, 11:19 And the stork,
after her kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.

11:20 All fowls that crupon all four, shall be an
abomination unto you.

11:21 Yet these may every flying creeping thing that goeth
upon all four, which have legs  feet, to leap withal upon
the earth; 11:22 Even these of them ye may ocust after his
kind, and the bald locust after his kind, and the beets
kind, and the grasshopper after his kind.

11:23 But all other flyinthings, which have four feet,
shall be an abomination unto you.

11:24ese ye shall be unclean: whosoever toucheth the
carcase of them shall until the even.

11:25 And whosoever beareth ought of the carcase of twash
his clothes, and be unclean until the even.

11:26 The carcases ost which divideth the hoof, and is not
clovenfooted, nor cheweth the clean unto you: every one
that toucheth them shall be unclean.

11:27 Aver goeth upon his paws, among all manner of beasts
that go on all foue unclean unto you: whoso toucheth their
carcase shall be unclean unti

11:28 And he that beareth the carcase of them shall wash his clothesclean until the even: they are unclean unto you.

11:29 These also shalean unto you among the creeping things
that creep upon the earth; theand the mouse, and the tortoise
after his kind, 11:30 And the ferret, chameleon, and the
lizard, and the snail, and the mole.

11:31 These a to you among all that creep: whosoever doth
touch them, when they be l be unclean until the even.

11:32 And upon whatsoever any of them, we dead, doth fall,
it shall be unclean; whether it be any vessel of woment, or
skin, or sack, whatsoever vessel it be, wherein any work is d be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the even; so it
shalsed.

11:33 And every earthen vessel, whereinto any of them falleth,
wis in it shall be unclean; and ye shall break it.

11:34 Of all meat wbe eaten, that on which such water cometh
shall be unclean: and all dry be drunk in every such vessel
shall be unclean.

11:35 And every thion any part of their carcase falleth
shall be unclean; whether it be oanges for pots, they shall
be broken down: for they are unclean and shclean unto you.

11:36 Nevertheless a fountain or pit, wherein there if
water, shall be clean: but that which toucheth their carcase shall b11:37 And if any part of their carcase fall upon any sowing seed whichown, it shall be clean.

11:38 But if any water be put upon the seed, art of their
carcase fall thereon, it shall be unclean unto you.

11:3any beast, of which ye may eat, die; he that toucheth the
carcase therbe unclean until the even.

11:40 And he that eateth of the carcase ofash his clothes,
and be unclean until the even: he also that beareth t of it
shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even.

11:41 Aeeping thing that creepeth upon the earth shall be
an abomination; it be eaten.

11:42 Whatsoever goeth upon the belly, and whatsoever goethour, or whatsoever hath more feet among all creeping things that
creepearth, them ye shall not eat; for they are an
abomination.

11:43 Ye sake yourselves abominable with any creeping thing
that creepeth, neithye make yourselves unclean with them,
that ye should be defiled therebFor I am the LORD your God: ye shall therefore sanctify
yourselves, an be holy; for I am holy: neither shall ye
defile yourselves with any mreeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth.

11:45 For I am the LORD th you up out of the land of Egypt,
to be your God: ye shall therefore or I am holy.

11:46 This is the law of the beasts, and of the fowl, ary
living creature that moveth in the waters, and of every creature thth upon the earth: 11:47 To make a difference between the
unclean and  and between the beast that may be eaten and the
beast that may not be12:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 12:2 Speak unto the
childrel, saying, If a woman have conceived seed, and born a
man child: then be unclean seven days; according to the days
of the separation for he shall she be unclean.

12:3 And in the eighth day the flesh of his foll be
circumcised.

12:4 And she shall then continue in the blood of hng three
and thirty days; she shall touch no hallowed thing, nor come anctuary, until the days of her purifying be fulfilled.

12:5 But if smaid child, then she shall be unclean two
weeks, as in her separation:all continue in the blood of
her purifying threescore and six days.

1n the days of her purifying are fulfilled, for a son, or
for a daughteall bring a lamb of the first year for a burnt
offering, and a young p a turtledove, for a sin offering,
unto the door of the tabernacle of gation, unto the priest:
12:7 Who shall offer it before the LORD, and onement for
her; and she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood
the law for her that hath born a male or a female.

12:8 And if she be to bring a lamb, then she shall bring two
turtles, or two young pigeone for the burnt offering, and the
other for a sin offering: and the ll make an atonement for
her, and she shall be clean.

13:1 And the LOunto Moses and Aaron, saying, 13:2 When a man
shall have in the skin o a rising, a scab, or bright spot,
and it be in the skin of his flesh lague of leprosy; then he
shall be brought unto Aaron the priest, or uhis sons the
priests: 13:3 And the priest shall look on the plague in 
the flesh: and when the hair in the plague is turned white, and the
pight be deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is a plague
of leprosy: iest shall look on him, and pronounce him
unclean.

13:4 If the brighthite in the skin of his flesh, and in
sight be not deeper than the skihair thereof be not turned
white; then the priest shall shut up him thplague seven
days: 13:5 And the priest shall look on him the seventh dehold, if the plague in his sight be at a stay, and the plague spread
skin; then the priest shall shut him up seven days more:
13:6 And the l look on him again the seventh day: and,
behold, if the plague be som and the plague spread not in
the skin, the priest shall pronounce himt is but a scab: and
he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.

13:7 Buab spread much abroad in the skin, after that he
hath been seen of theor his cleansing, he shall be seen of
the priest again.

13:8 And if tsee that, behold, the scab spreadeth in the
skin, then the priest shalce him unclean: it is a leprosy.

13:9 When the plague of leprosy is ihe shall be brought
unto the priest; 13:10 And the priest shall see hihold, if
the rising be white in the skin, and it have turned the hair d there be quick raw flesh in the rising; 13:11 It is an old leprosy
in of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean,
and shall him up: for he is unclean.

13:12 And if a leprosy break out abroad in and the leprosy
cover all the skin of him that hath the plague from hen to
his foot, wheresoever the priest looketh; 13:13 Then the priest ider: and, behold, if the leprosy have covered all his flesh, he
shall him clean that hath the plague: it is all turned
white: he is clean.
when raw flesh appeareth in him, he shall be unclean.

13:15 And the pl see the raw flesh, and pronounce him to be
unclean: for the raw flesn: it is a leprosy.

13:16 Or if the raw flesh turn again, and be chanhite, he
shall come unto the priest; 13:17 And the priest shall see hiold, if the plague be turned into white; then the priest shall
pronounn that hath the plague: he is clean.

13:18 The flesh also, in which, e skin thereof, was a boil,
and is healed, 13:19 And in the place of there be a white
rising, or a bright spot, white, and somewhat reddish,
shewed to the priest; 13:20 And if, when the priest seeth it, behold,sight lower than the skin, and the hair thereof be turned
white; the pl pronounce him unclean: it is a plague of
leprosy broken out of the b:21 But if the priest look on it, and, behold, there be no white
hairsnd if it be not lower than the skin, but be somewhat
dark; then the prshut him up seven days: 13:22 And if it
spread much abroad in the skin priest shall pronounce him
unclean: it is a plague.

13:23 But if thepot stay in his place, and spread not, it is
a burning boil; and the pl pronounce him clean.

13:24 Or if there be any flesh, in the skin wh is a hot
burning, and the quick flesh that burneth have a white brighewhat reddish, or white; 13:25 Then the priest shall look upon it:
andf the hair in the bright spot be turned white, and it be
in sight deepe skin; it is a leprosy broken out of the
burning: wherefore the priesronounce him unclean: it is the
plague of leprosy.

13:26 But if the p on it, and, behold, there be no white
hair in the bright spot, and itr than the other skin, but
be somewhat dark; then the priest shall shueven days: 13:27
And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day: abe
spread much abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce himt is the plague of leprosy.

13:28 And if the bright spot stay in his  spread not in the
skin, but it be somewhat dark; it is a rising of th and the
priest shall pronounce him clean: for it is an inflammation oing.

13:29 If a man or woman have a plague upon the head or the beardn the priest shall see the plague: and, behold, if it be in
sight deepe skin; and there be in it a yellow thin hair;
then the priest shall pim unclean: it is a dry scall, even a
leprosy upon the head or beard.
 if the priest look on the plague of the scall, and, behold,
it be noteeper than the skin, and that there is no black
hair in it; then the p shut up him that hath the plague of
the scall seven days: 13:32 And inth day the priest shall
look on the plague: and, behold, if the scall, and there be
in it no yellow hair, and the scall be not in sight deehe
skin; 13:33 He shall be shaven, but the scall shall he not shave; ast shall shut up him that hath the scall seven days more:
13:34 And innth day the priest shall look on the scall: and,
behold, if the scall ead in the skin, nor be in sight deeper
than the skin; then the priestounce him clean: and he shall
wash his clothes, and be clean.

13:35 Bscall spread much in the skin after his cleansing;
13:36 Then the prieok on him: and, behold, if the scall be
spread in the skin, the priest seek for yellow hair; he is
unclean.

13:37 But if the scall be in hi a stay, and that there is
black hair grown up therein; the scall is hs clean: and the
priest shall pronounce him clean.

13:38 If a man alsan have in the skin of their flesh bright
spots, even white bright spoThen the priest shall look: and,
behold, if the bright spots in the skbe darkish
white; it is a freckled spot that groweth in the skin; he in.

13:40 And the man whose hair is fallen off his head, he is bald; ylean.

13:41 And he that hath his hair fallen off from the part of hisard his face, he is forehead bald: yet is he clean.

13:42 And if there bald head, or bald forehead, a white
reddish sore; it is a leprosy sn his bald head, or his bald
forehead.

13:43 Then the priest shall lot: and, behold, if the rising
of the sore be white reddish in his baldin his bald
forehead, as the leprosy appeareth in the skin of the flesHe
is a leprous man, he is unclean: the priest shall pronounce him
uttn; his plague is in his head.

13:45 And the leper in whom the plague lothes shall be rent,
and his head bare, and he shall put a covering uper lip, and
shall cry, Unclean, unclean.

13:46 All the days wherein ue shall be in him he shall be
defiled; he is unclean: he shall dwell alone; without the camp shall
his habitation be.

13:47 The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether it be
a woollen garment, or a linen garment; 13:48 Whether it be in the
warp, or woof; of linen, or of woollen; whether in a skin, or in any
thing made of skin; 13:49 And if the plague be greenish or reddish in
the garment, or in the sin, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in
any thing of skin; it isof leprosy, and shall be shewed unto
the priest: 13:50 And the priest upon the plague, and shut
up it that hath the plague seven days: 13:51all look on the
plague on the seventh day: if the plague be spread in t,
either in the warp, or in the woof, or in a skin, or in any work thade of skin; the plague is a fretting leprosy; it is unclean.

13:52 Herefore burn that garment, whether warp or woof, in
woollen or in linething of skin, wherein the plague is: for
it is a fretting leprosy; iturnt in the fire.

13:53 And if the priest shall look, and, behold, the not
spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or inof skin; 13:54 Then the priest shall command that they wash the
thing he plague is, and he shall shut it up seven days more:
13:55 And the p look on the plague, after that it is
washed: and, behold, if the plagt changed his colour, and
the plague be not spread; it is unclean; thon it in the
fire; it is fret inward, whether it be bare within or with6 And if the priest look, and, behold, the plague be somewhat dark
afthing of it; then he shall rend it out of the garment, or
out of the skof the warp, or out of the woof: 13:57 And if
it appear still in the gther in the warp, or in the woof, or
in any thing of skin; it is a sprgue: thou shalt burn that
wherein the plague is with fire.

13:58 And t, either warp, or woof, or whatsoever thing of
skin it be, which thou, if the plague be departed from
them, then it shall be washed the secand shall be clean.

13:59 This is the law of the plague of leprosy in of woollen
or linen, either in the warp, or woof, or any thing of skionounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.

14:1 And the LORD spakes, saying, 14:2 This shall be the law
of the leper in the day of his cHe shall be brought unto the
priest: 14:3 And the priest shall go fortthe camp; and the
priest shall look, and, behold, if the plague of lepealed in
the leper; 14:4 Then shall the priest command to take for himo be cleansed two birds alive and clean, and cedar wood, and scarlet,
 14:5 And the priest shall command that one of the birds be
killed in  vessel over running water: 14:6 As for the living
bird, he shall takee cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the
hyssop, and shall dip them and  bird in the blood of the
bird that was killed over the running water:e shall
sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seve shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird loose
into teld.

14:8 And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and sl his hair, and wash himself in water, that he may be clean: and
afterhall come into the camp, and shall tarry abroad out of
his tent seven 9 But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his
haird his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he
shall shave off: anwash his clothes, also he shall wash his
flesh in water, and he shall 

14:10 And on the eighth day he shall take two he lambs without
blemie ewe lamb of the first year without blemish, and three
tenth deals ofr for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and
one log of oil.

14:11 Anest that maketh him clean shall present the man that
is to be made cleose things, before the LORD, at the door of
the tabernacle of the cong4:12 And the priest shall take
one he lamb, and offer him for a trespa, and the log of
oil, and wave them for a wave offering before the LORnd he
shall slay the lamb in the place where he shall kill the sin offthe burnt offering, in the holy place: for as the sin offering is
the  so is the trespass offering: it is most holy: 14:14 And
the priest shome of the blood of the trespass offering, and
the priest shall put ittip of the right ear of him that is
to be cleansed, and upon the thumbght hand, and upon the
great toe of his right foot: 14:15 And the prieake some of
the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left 16
And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times
before the 7 And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand
shall the priest put ip of the right ear of him that is to
be cleansed, and upon the thumb t hand, and upon the great
toe of his right foot, upon the blood of th offering: 14:18
And the remnant of the oil that is in the priest’s hall pour
upon the head of him that is to be cleansed: and the priest an atonement for him before the LORD.

14:19 And the priest shall offeffering, and make an
atonement for him that is to be cleansed from hiss; and
afterward he shall kill the burnt offering: 14:20 And the priesfer the burnt offering and the meat offering upon the altar: and the
pl make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean.

14:21 And if he b cannot get so much; then he shall take
one lamb for a trespass offeriaved, to make an atonement for
him, and one tenth deal of fine flour mh oil for a meat
offering, and a log of oil; 14:22 And two turtledovesoung
pigeons, such as he is able to get; and the one shall be a sin
of the other a burnt offering.

14:23 And he shall bring them on the eig his cleansing unto
the priest, unto the door of the tabernacle of theion,
before the LORD.

14:24 And the priest shall take the lamb of theoffering, and
the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wavbefore the LORD: 14:25 And he shall kill the lamb of the trespass
offethe priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass
offering, and  the tip of the right ear of him that is to
be cleansed, and upon the is right hand, and upon the great
toe of his right foot: 14:26 And thell pour of the oil into
the palm of his own left hand: 14:27 And the pl sprinkle
with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left himes before the LORD: 14:28 And the priest shall put of the oil that
iand upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be
cleansed, and umb of his right hand, and upon the great toe
of his right foot, upon t the blood of the trespass
offering: 14:29 And the rest of the oil tha priest’s hand
he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleane an
atonement for him before the LORD.

14:30 And he shall offer the turtledoves, or of the young
pigeons, such as he can get; 14:31 Even sis able to get, the
one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt ith the
meat offering: and the priest shall make an atonement for him  be cleansed before the LORD.

14:32 This is the law of him in whom is of leprosy, whose
hand is not able to get that which pertaineth to hig.

14:33 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 14:34  come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a
possession, ahe plague of leprosy in a house of the land of
your possession; 14:35 t owneth the house shall come and
tell the priest, saying, It seemeth  is as it were a plague
in the house: 14:36 Then the priest shall commhey empty the
house, before the priest go into it to see the plague, tis in the house be not made unclean: and afterward the priest shall goe the house: 14:37 And he shall look on the plague, and,
behold, if th in the walls of the house with hollow
strakes, greenish or reddish, wht are lower than the wall;
14:38 Then the priest shall go out of the e door of the
house, and shut up the house seven days: 14:39 And the pl
come again the seventh day, and shall look: and, behold, if the plagad in the walls of the house; 14:40 Then the priest shall
command that away the stones in which the plague is, and
they shall cast them intoan place without the city: 14:41 And
he shall cause the house to be scin round about, and they
shall pour out the dust that they scrape off e city into an
unclean place: 14:42 And they shall take other stones, em in
the place of those stones; and he shall take other morter, and ster the house.

14:43 And if the plague come again, and break out in t after
that he hath taken away the stones, and after he hath scraped t and after it is plaistered; 14:44 Then the priest shall come
and lookold, if the plague be spread in the house, it is a
fretting leprosy in; it is unclean.

14:45 And he shall break down the house, the stones  the
timber thereof, and all the morter of the house; and he shall carth out of the city into an unclean place.

14:46 Moreover he that goet house all the while that it is
shut up shall be unclean until the evend he that lieth in the house shall wash his clothes; and he
that eatehouse shall wash his clothes.

14:48 And if the priest shall come in, on it, and, behold,
the plague hath not spread in the house, after theplaistered: then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because
ts healed.

14:49 And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds, and, and scarlet, and hyssop: 14:50 And he shall kill the one of the
birdthen vessel over running water: 14:51 And he shall take
the cedar woodyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird,
and dip them in the bloodain bird, and in the running water,
and sprinkle the house seven times he shall cleanse the
house with the blood of the bird, and with the rer, and with
the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hywith the scarlet: 14:53 But he shall let go the living bird out of thethe open fields, and make an atonement for the house: and it
shall be 54 This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy, and scall,
14: the leprosy of a garment, and of a house, 14:56 And for
a rising, andb, and for a bright spot: 14:57 To teach when
it is unclean, and when : this is the law of leprosy.

15:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and ying, 15:2 Speak
unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When h a
running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is uncleand this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh
run wie, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his
uncleanness.

15:, whereon he lieth that hath the issue, is unclean: and
every thing, witteth, shall be unclean.

15:5 And whosoever toucheth his bed shall wothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:at sitteth on any thing whereon he sat that hath the
issue shall wash s, and bathe himself in water, and be
unclean until the even.

15:7 Antoucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue shall
wash his clothes, imself in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:8 And if he that hsue spit upon him that is clean; then
he shall wash his clothes, and bimself in water, and be unclean
until the even.

15:9 And what saddle ideth upon that hath the issue shall
be unclean.

15:10 And whosoever y thing that was under him shall be
unclean until the even: and he thany of those things shall
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water,lean until the
even.

15:11 And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the iath not
rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bath water, and be unclean until the even.

15:12 And the vessel of earth,oucheth which hath the issue,
shall be broken: and every vessel of woorinsed in water.

15:13 And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of  he
shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.

15:14 And hth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or
two young pigeons, anre the LORD unto the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, and gto the priest: 15:15
And the priest shall offer them, the one for a si and the
other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonhim before the LORD for his issue.

15:16 And if any man’s seed of cgo out from him, then he
shall wash all his flesh in water, and be uncthe even.

15:17 And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seeation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even.

15:an also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation,
they shall bohemselves in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:19 And if a womissue, and her issue in her flesh be
blood, she shall be put apart sevd whosoever toucheth her
shall be unclean until the even.

15:20 And ethat she lieth upon in her separation shall be
unclean: every thing ale sitteth upon shall be unclean.

15:21 And whosoever toucheth her bed his clothes, and bathe
himself in water, and be unclean until the evend whosoever toucheth any thing that she sat upon shall wash
his clothhe himself in water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:23 And if it bed, or on any thing whereon she sitteth,
when he toucheth it, he shall until the even.

15:24 And if any man lie with her at all, and her flon him,
he shall be unclean seven days; and all the bed whereon he liee unclean.

15:25 And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days 
time of her separation, or if it run beyond the time of her
separatio days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as
the days of her sepa shall be unclean.

15:26 Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of hall be
unto her as the bed of her separation: and whatsoever she sitthall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her separation.

15:27 And whosh those things shall be unclean, and shall
wash his clothes, and bathe water, and be unclean until the
even.

15:28 But if she be cleansed oe, then she shall number to
herself seven days, and after that she sha.

15:29 And on the eighth day she shall take unto her two turtles, orpigeons, and bring them unto the priest, to the door of the
tabernaclegregation.

15:30 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offerinother for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness.

15:31 Thus shall ye separldren of Israel from their
uncleanness; that they die not in their unchen they defile
my tabernacle that is among them.

15:32 This is the lhat hath an issue, and of him whose seed
goeth from him, and is defile; 15:33 And of her that is
sick of her flowers, and of him that hath af the man, and of
the woman, and of him that lieth with her that is un1 And the LORD spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of
Aarey offered before the LORD, and died; 16:2 And the LORD
said unto Moseto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all
times into the holy plache vail before the mercy seat, which
is upon the ark; that he die not:l appear in the cloud upon
the mercy seat.

16:3 Thus shall Aaron comeoly place: with a young bullock
for a sin offering, and a ram for a bung.

16:4 He shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the les upon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linen girdle, and
with titre shall he be attired: these are holy garments;
therefore shall he lesh in water, and so put them on.

16:5 And he shall take of the congf the children of Israel
two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and for a burnt
offering.

16:6 And Aaron shall offer his bullock of the ing, which is
for himself, and make an atonement for himself, and for 
16:7 And he shall take the two goats, and present them before the LORoor of the tabernacle of the congregation.

16:8 And Aaron shall cast e two goats; one lot for the
LORD, and the other lot for the scapegoatd Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the LORD’s lot fell,
and offa sin offering.

16:10 But the goat, on which the lot fell to be the s
be presented alive before the LORD, to make an atonement with him, anim go for a scapegoat into the wilderness.

16:11 And Aaron shall brinock of the sin offering, which is
for himself, and shall make an atoneimself, and for his
house, and shall kill the bullock of the sin offeris for
himself: 16:12 And he shall take a censer full of burning coalsom off the altar before the LORD, and his hands full of sweet
incense l, and bring it within the vail: 16:13 And he shall
put the incense up before the LORD, that the cloud of the
incense may cover the mercy se upon the testimony, that he
die not: 16:14 And he shall take of the b bullock, and
sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastwardre
the mercy seat shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven6:15 Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering, that is for the
d bring his blood within the vail, and do with that blood as
he did wiod of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy
seat, and before thet: 16:16 And he shall make an atonement
for the holy place, because ofanness of the children of
Israel, and because of their transgressions ir sins: and so
shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation, thh
among them in the midst of their uncleanness.

16:17 And there shallin the tabernacle of the congregation
when he goeth in to make an atonhe holy place, until he come
out, and have made an atonement for himser his household,
and for all the congregation of Israel.

16:18 And heut unto the altar that is before the LORD, and
make an atonement for il take of the blood of the bullock,
and of the blood of the goat, and n the horns of the altar
round about.

16:19 And he shall sprinkle of upon it with his finger seven
times, and cleanse it, and hallow it froanness of the
children of Israel.

16:20 And when he hath made an end ling the holy place, and
the tabernacle of the congregation, and the ashall bring the
live goat: 16:21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands upd of
the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the chisrael, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting
them upd of the goat, and shall send him away by the hand of
a fit man into tess: 16:22 And the goat shall bear upon him
all their iniquities unto  inhabited: and he shall let go
the goat in the wilderness.

16:23 Andll come into the tabernacle of the congregation,
and shall put off theents, which he put on when he went
into the holy place, and shall leave: 16:24 And he shall
wash his flesh with water in the holy place, ands garments,
and come forth, and offer his burnt offering, and the burn
of the people, and make an atonement for himself, and for the people. the fat of the sin offering shall he burn upon the altar.

16:26 And  go the goat for the scapegoat shall wash his
clothes, and bathe his fer, and afterward come into the
camp.

16:27 And the bullock for the sg, and the goat for the sin
offering, whose blood was brought in to mant in the holy
place, shall one carry forth without the camp; and theyn in
the fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung.

16:28 And burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his
flesh in water, anrd he shall come into the camp.

16:29 And this shall be a statute for you: that in the
seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye sha your
souls, and do no work at all, whether it be one of your own counstranger that sojourneth among you: 16:30 For on that day shall
the pran atonement for you, to cleanse you, that ye may be
clean from all yoefore the LORD.

16:31 It shall be a sabbath of rest unto you, and ye ct
your souls, by a statute for ever.

16:32 And the priest, whom he s, and whom he shall
consecrate to minister in the priest’s office inr’s stead,
shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen clothe
holy garments: 16:33 And he shall make an atonement for the holy
sand he shall make an atonement for the tabernacle of the
congregation, e altar, and he shall make an atonement for
the priests, and for all tf the congregation.

16:34 And this shall be an everlasting statute un an
atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a yeand he did as the LORD commanded Moses.

17:1 And the LORD spake unto Ming, 17:2 Speak unto Aaron, and
unto his sons, and unto all the childrd say unto them;
This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, saying, 17:3 What man
soever there be of the house of Israel, that killeth an ox, or lamb,
or goat, in the camp, or that killeth it out of the camp, 17:4 And
bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,
to offer an offering unto the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD;
blood shall be imputed unto that man; he hath shed blood;d that man
shall be cut off from among his people: 17:5 To the end thadren of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they offer in the
opeven that they may bring them unto the LORD, unto the door
of the taberhe congregation, unto the priest, and offer them
for peace offerings uD.

17:6 And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of thee door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and burn the
fat for a s unto the LORD.

17:7 And they shall no more offer their sacrifices un after
whom they have gone a whoring. This shall be a statute for everthroughout their generations.

17:8 And thou shalt say unto them, Whatthere be of the
house of Israel, or of the strangers which sojourn amot
offereth a burnt offering or sacrifice, 17:9 And bringeth it not unt of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it unto the
LORD; eve shall be cut off from among his people.

17:10 And whatsoever man thee house of Israel, or of the
strangers that sojourn among you, that eaanner of blood; I
will even set my face against that soul that eateth  will
cut him off from among his people.

17:11 For the life of the fl the blood: and I have given it
to you upon the altar to make an atoneur souls: for it is
the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul.

fore I said unto the children of Israel, No soul of you
shall eat bloo shall any stranger that sojourneth among you
eat blood.

17:13 And whan there be of the children of Israel, or of the
strangers that sojourou, which hunteth and catcheth any beast
or fowl that may be eaten; hen pour out the blood thereof,
and cover it with dust.

17:14 For it isof all flesh; the blood of it is for the life
thereof: therefore I saie children of Israel, Ye shall eat
the blood of no manner of flesh: fo of all flesh is the
blood thereof: whosoever eateth it shall be cut o And every soul that eateth that which died of itself, or that
which wth beasts, whether it be one of your own country, or
a stranger, he shash his clothes, and bathe himself in
water, and be unclean until the hen shall he be clean.

17:16 But if he wash them not, nor bathe his f he shall bear
his iniquity.

18:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, sayieak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, I am the LORD your3 After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye
nod after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring
you, shall yneither shall ye walk in their ordinances.

18:4 Ye shall do my judgmeeep mine ordinances, to walk
therein: I am the LORD your God.

18:5 Yerefore keep my statutes, and my judgments: which if a
man do, he shallem: I am the LORD.

18:6 None of you shall approach to any that is neao him, to
uncover their nakedness: I am the LORD.

18:7 The nakedness her, or the nakedness of thy mother,
shalt thou not uncover: she is thhou shalt not uncover her
nakedness.

18:8 The nakedness of thy fathershalt thou not uncover: it is
thy father’s nakedness.

18:9 The nakey sister, the daughter of thy father, or
daughter of thy mother, whethorn at home, or born abroad,
even their nakedness thou shalt not uncovThe nakedness of thy son’s daughter, or of thy daughter’s
daughterr nakedness thou shalt not uncover: for theirs is
thine own nakedness.e nakedness of thy father’s wife’s daughter, begotten of thy
fathethy sister, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:12 Thou shalt nothe nakedness of thy father’s sister: she
is thy father’s near kin:13 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother’s sister: forother’s near kinswoman.

18:14 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness  father’s brother,
thou shalt not approach to his wife: she is thine8:15 Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter in law: she
’s wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:16 Thou shalt nothe nakedness of thy brother’s wife: it
is thy brother’s nakedness.ou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her
daughter, neitheou take her son’s daughter, or her
daughter’s daughter, to uncoveress; for they are her near
kinswomen: it is wickedness.

18:18 Neitheru take a wife to her sister, to vex her, to
uncover her nakedness, beser in her life time.

18:19 Also thou shalt not approach unto a woman her
nakedness, as long as she is put apart for her uncleanness.

18:20hou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbours wife,
to defile thyself

18:21 And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire tneither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.

18:22 not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is
abomination.

18:23 Neithou lie with any beast to defile thyself
therewith: neither shall anynd before a beast to lie down
thereto: it is confusion.

18:24 Defile rselves in any of these things: for in all
these the nations are defil cast out before you: 18:25 And
the land is defiled: therefore I do viiquity thereof upon
it, and the land itself vomiteth out her inhabitanYe shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, and shall
not co of these abominations; neither any of your own nation,
nor any strangourneth among you: 18:27 (For all these
abominations have the men of te, which were before you, and
the land is defiled;) 18:28 That the lanyou out also, when
ye defile it, as it spued out the nations that wereu.

18:29 For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations, even tat commit them shall be cut off from among their people.

18:30 Therefye keep mine ordinance, that ye commit not any
one of these abominablewhich were committed before you, and
that ye defile not yourselves the the LORD your God.

19:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 19:2 o all the
congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Y
holy: for I the LORD your God am holy.

19:3 Ye shall fear every man  and his father, and keep my
sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.

19:4 T unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am
the LORD your Gond if ye offer a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, ye
shall t your own will.

19:6 It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, androw:
and if ought remain until the third day, it shall be burnt in the7 And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable; it
shaaccepted.

19:8 Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniqse he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the LORD: and that soul
shaloff from among his people.

19:9 And when ye reap the harvest of your  shalt not wholly
reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou galeanings
of thy harvest.

19:10 And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard,lt thou gather
every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for nd
stranger: I am the LORD your God.

19:11 Ye shall not steal, neitheely, neither lie one to
another.

19:12 And ye shall not swear by my ny, neither shalt thou
profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.

19:alt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob him: the wages
of him that all not abide with thee all night until the
morning.

19:14 Thou shalt the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before
the blind, but shalt fear tm the LORD.

19:15 Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shespect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty:
butousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.

19:16 Thou shalt not go up an talebearer among thy people:
neither shalt thou stand against the bloneighbour; I am the
LORD.

19:17 Thou shalt not hate thy brother in ththou shalt in
any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon h Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children
of thbut thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the
LORD.

19:19 Yey statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender
with a diverse kind: ou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed:
neither shall a garment ed of linen and woollen come upon thee.

19:20 And whosoever lieth car a woman, that is a bondmaid,
betrothed to an husband, and not at all nor freedom given
her; she shall be scourged; they shall not be put toause
she was not free.

19:21 And he shall bring his trespass offering LORD, unto the
door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ramspass
offering.

19:22 And the priest shall make an atonement for him am of
the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he hath  the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven him.

19:23 And when ye  into the land, and shall have planted all
manner of trees for food, tll count the fruit thereof as
uncircumcised: three years shall it be acised unto you: it
shall not be eaten of.

19:24 But in the fourth yeafruit thereof shall be holy to
praise the LORD withal.

19:25 And in tear shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it
may yield unto you the ereof: I am the LORD your God.

19:26 Ye shall not eat any thing with neither shall ye use
enchantment, nor observe times.

19:27 Ye shall nhe corners of your heads, neither shalt thou
mar the corners of thy be8 Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor
printks upon you: I am the LORD.

19:29 Do not prostitute thy daughter, to to be a whore; lest
the land fall to whoredom, and the land become fuldness.

19:30 Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: IRD.

19:31 Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek afrds, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.

19:32 Thou shalt fore the hoary head, and honour the face of
the old man, and fear thy the LORD.

19:33 And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye 
vex him.

19:34 But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be untoe
born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were
strahe land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

19:35 Ye shall do no unrighn judgment, in meteyard, in
weight, or in measure.

19:36 Just balanceights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall
ye have: I am the LORD yourh brought you out of the land of
Egypt.

19:37 Therefore shall ye obse statutes, and all my
judgments, and do them: I am the LORD.

20:1 Andpake unto Moses, saying, 20:2 Again, thou shalt say
to the children ofhosoever he be of the children of Israel,
or of the strangers that sojrael, that giveth any of his
seed unto Molech; he shall surely be put the people of the
land shall stone him with stones.

20:3 And I will sagainst that man, and will cut him off
from among his people; because ven of his seed unto Molech,
to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my.

20:4 And if the people of the land do any ways hide their eyes fromhen he giveth of his seed unto Molech, and kill him not:
20:5 Then I w face against that man, and against his family,
and will cut him off, at go a whoring after him, to commit
whoredom with Molech, from among e.

20:6 And the soul that turneth after such as have familiar spiritser wizards, to go a whoring after them, I will even set my face
agains, and will cut him off from among his people.

20:7 Sanctify yourselvee, and be ye holy: for I am the LORD
your God.

20:8 And ye shall keepes, and do them: I am the LORD which
sanctify you.

20:9 For every oneth his father or his mother shall be
surely put to death: he hath cursher or his mother; his
blood shall be upon him.

20:10 And the man thath adultery with another man’s wife,
even he that committeth adulter neighbours wife, the
adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put

20:11 And the man that lieth with his father’s wife hath uncoveredr’s nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their
bloo upon them.

20:12 And if a man lie with his daughter in law, both of 
surely be put to death: they have wrought confusion; their blood shalthem.

20:13 If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman,hem have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to
death; d shall be upon them.

20:14 And if a man take a wife and her mother, ness: they
shall be burnt with fire, both he and they; that there be nkedness among you.

20:15 And if a man lie with a beast, he shall sure to death:
and ye shall slay the beast.

20:16 And if a woman approacheast, and lie down thereto,
thou shalt kill the woman, and the beast:  surely be put to
death; their blood shall be upon them.

20:17 And ifl take his sister, his father’s daughter, or
his mother’s daughterer nakedness, and she see his
nakedness; it is a wicked thing; and thecut off in the
sight of their people: he hath uncovered his sister’s; he
shall bear his iniquity.

20:18 And if a man shall lie with a womer sickness, and
shall uncover her nakedness; he hath discovered her fnd she
hath uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shalff from among their people.

20:19 And thou shalt not uncover the nakey mother’s sister,
nor of thy father’s sister: for he uncovereth hn: they shall
bear their iniquity.

20:20 And if a man shall lie with s wife, he hath uncovered
his uncle’s nakedness: they shall bear t they shall die
childless.

20:21 And if a man shall take his brothert is an unclean
thing: he hath uncovered his brother’s nakedness; thbe
childless.

20:22 Ye shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all ts,
and do them: that the land, whither I bring you to dwell therein, ot out.

20:23 And ye shall not walk in the manners of the nation, whiout before you: for they committed all these things, and therefore I
am.

20:24 But I have said unto you, Ye shall inherit their land, and Iit unto you to possess it, a land that floweth with milk and
honey: I D your God, which have separated you from other
people.

20:25 Ye shal put difference between clean beasts and
unclean, and between unclean clean: and ye shall not make
your souls abominable by beast, or by fowy manner of living
thing that creepeth on the ground, which I have sepm you as
unclean.

20:26 And ye shall be holy unto me: for I the LORD d have
severed you from other people, that ye should be mine.

20:27 Aor woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a
wizard, shall surel death: they shall stone them with
stones: their blood shall be upon tAnd the LORD said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests the sons of
Aaronnto them, There shall none be defiled for the dead
among his people: 2 his kin, that is near unto him, that
is, for his mother, and for his  for his son, and for his
daughter, and for his brother.

21:3 And forer a virgin, that is nigh unto him, which hath
had no husband; for her defiled.

21:4 But he shall not defile himself, being a chief man amole, to profane himself.

21:5 They shall not make baldness upon their er shall they
shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttinr
flesh.

21:6 They shall be holy unto their God, and not profane the eir God: for the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and the bread
of hey do offer: therefore they shall be holy.

21:7 They shall not take t is a whore, or profane; neither
shall they take a woman put away frond: for he is holy unto
his God.

21:8 Thou shalt sanctify him therefooffereth the bread of
thy God: he shall be holy unto thee: for I the Lsanctify
you, am holy.

21:9 And the daughter of any priest, if she prlf by playing
the whore, she profaneth her father: she shall be burnt 
21:10 And he that is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose
hointing oil was poured, and that is consecrated to put on
the garments uncover his head, nor rend his clothes; 21:11
Neither shall he go in d body, nor defile himself for his
father, or for his mother; 21:12 Nel he go out of the
sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; fon of the
anointing oil of his God is upon him: I am the LORD.

21:13 A take a wife in her virginity.

21:14 A widow, or a divorced woman, ore, or an harlot, these
shall he not take: but he shall take a virgin oeople to
wife.

21:15 Neither shall he profane his seed among his peopthe
LORD do sanctify him.

21:16 And the LORD spake unto Moses, sayingeak unto Aaron,
saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed in their generationy
blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God.

21:18 whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, he shall not
approach: a blt nose, or any
thing superfluous, 21:19 Or a man that is brokenfooted,0 Or crookbackt, or a dwarf, or that hath a blemish
in his eye, or be scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones broken; 21:21
No man that hath a blemish of the seed of Aaron the priest shall come
nigh to offer theof the LORD made by fire: he hath a
blemish; he shall not come nigh tohe bread of his God.

21:22 He shall eat the bread of his God, both oft holy, and of
the holy.

21:23 Only he shall not go in unto the vail, nigh unto the
altar, because he hath a blemish; that he profane not mries:
for I the LORD do sanctify them.

21:24 And Moses told it unto A to his sons, and unto all the
children of Israel.

22:1 And the LORD  Moses, saying, 22:2 Speak unto Aaron and
to his sons, that they separelves from the holy things of the
children of Israel, and that they pr my holy name in those
things which they hallow unto me: I am the LORDay unto them, Whosoever he be of all your seed among your
generations,h unto the holy things, which the children of
Israel hallow unto the Lng his uncleanness upon him, that
soul shall be cut off from my presenhe LORD.

22:4 What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hatng issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean.
And cheth any thing that is unclean by the dead, or a man
whose seed goeth; 22:5 Or whosoever toucheth any creeping
thing, whereby he may be mad or a man of whom he may take
uncleanness, whatsoever uncleanness he hThe soul which hath
touched any such shall be unclean until even, and eat of the
holy things, unless he wash his flesh with water.

22:7 Andun is down, he shall be clean, and shall afterward
eat of the holy thiuse it is his food.

22:8 That which dieth of itself, or is torn with e shall not
eat to defile himself therewith; I am the LORD.

22:9 Theyherefore keep mine ordinance, lest they bear sin for
it, and die therehey profane it: I the LORD do sanctify
them.

22:10 There shall no str of the holy thing: a sojourner of
the priest, or an hired servant, sh of the holy thing.

22:11 But if the priest buy any soul with his monll eat of
it, and he that is born in his house: they shall eat of his :12 If the priest’s daughter also be married unto a stranger, she
maof an offering of the holy things.

22:13 But if the priest’s daughtow, or divorced, and have
no child, and is returned unto her father’s in her youth,
she shall eat of her father’s meat: but there shall nger eat
thereof.

22:14 And if a man eat of the holy thing unwittingl shall
put the fifth part thereof unto it, and shall give it unto the oly thing.

22:15 And they shall not profane the holy things of the chIsrael, which they offer unto the LORD; 22:16 Or suffer them to bear
ty of trespass, when they eat their holy things: for I the
LORD do sanc

22:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 22:18 Speak unto Aaron,s sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto
them, Whatsoof the house of Israel, or of the strangers in
Israel, that will offertion for all his vows, and for all his
freewill offerings, which they  unto the LORD for a burnt
offering; 22:19 Ye shall offer at your own e without
blemish, of the beeves, of the sheep, or of the goats.

22:2oever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it
shall not be accr you.

22:21 And whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace offerings unD to accomplish his vow, or a freewill offering in beeves or sheep,
itperfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.

22:22 Blinoken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or
scabbed, ye shall not se unto the LORD, nor make an offering
by fire of them upon the altar ORD.

22:23 Either a bullock or a lamb that hath any thing superfluousg in his parts, that mayest thou offer for a freewill offering;
but fo shall not be accepted.

22:24 Ye shall not offer unto the LORD that wuised, or
crushed, or broken, or cut; neither shall ye make any offerif
in your land.

22:25 Neither from a stranger’s hand shall ye offerour
God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, and
blemhes be in them: they shall not be accepted for you.

22:26 And the LORto Moses, saying, 22:27 When a bullock, or
a sheep, or a goat, is brou, then it shall be seven days
under the dam; and from the eighth day aorth it shall be
accepted for an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
 whether it be cow, or ewe, ye shall not kill it and her
young both in
22:29 And when ye will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving unto the
LORt at your own will.

22:30 On the same day it shall be eaten up; ye shnone of it
until the morrow: I am the LORD.

22:31 Therefore shall ye mmandments, and do them: I am the
LORD.

22:32 Neither shall ye profanname; but I will be hallowed
among the children of Israel: I am the LOh hallow you, 22:33
That brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be yI am the
LORD.

23:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:2 Speakchildren of Israel, and say unto them, Concerning the feasts of the
LOe shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are
my feasts.

2ys shall work be done: but the seventh day is the sabbath
of rest, an cation; ye shall do no work therein: it is the
sabbath of the LORD in wellings.

23:4 These are the feasts of the LORD, even holy convocatioe shall proclaim in their seasons.

23:5 In the fourteenth day of the h at even is the LORD’s
passover.

23:6 And on the fifteenth day of month is the feast of
unleavened bread unto the LORD: seven days ye mueavened
bread.

23:7 In the first day ye shall have an holy convocatiol do
no servile work therein.

23:8 But ye shall offer an offering madunto the LORD seven
days: in the seventh day is an holy convocation: yno
servile work therein.

23:9 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, k unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come intowhich I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye
sha sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest unto the
priest: 23:11 And hve the sheaf before the LORD, to be
accepted for you: on the morrow afbbath the priest shall
wave it.

23:12 And ye shall offer that day whe the sheaf an he lamb
without blemish of the first year for a burnt ofo the LORD.

23:13 And the meat offering thereof shall be two tenth de
flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto the LORD for a
ur: and the drink offering thereof shall be of wine, the
fourth part o23:14 And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green
ears selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto
your God: it shallte for ever throughout your generations
in all your dwellings.

23:15 all count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath,
from the day that the sheaf of the wave offering; seven
sabbaths shall be complete: 23nto the morrow after the
seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; al offer a new
meat offering unto the LORD.

23:17 Ye shall bring out oitations two wave loaves of two
tenth deals; they shall be of fine floall be baken with
leaven; they are the firstfruits unto the LORD.

23:shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of
the first yee young bullock, and two rams: they shall be for
a burnt offering unto with their meat offering, and their
drink offerings, even an offeringire, of sweet savour unto
the LORD.

23:19 Then ye shall sacrifice one goats for a sin offering,
and two lambs of the first year for a sacrice offerings.

23:20 And the priest shall wave them with the bread of stfruits
for a wave offering before the LORD, with the two lambs: theyholy to the LORD for the priest.

23:21 And ye shall proclaim on the say, that it may be an
holy convocation unto you: ye shall do no servilein: it
shall be a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout ytions.

23:22 And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt noean riddance of the corners of thy field when thou reapest, neither
shather any gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them
unto the poorhe stranger: I am the LORD your God.

23:23 And the LORD spake unto Mo, 23:24 Speak unto the
children of Israel, saying, In the seventh montirst day of
the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing pets,
an holy convocation.

23:25 Ye shall do no servile work therein:ll offer an
offering made by fire unto the LORD.

23:26 And the LORD soses, saying, 23:27 Also on the tenth
day of this seventh month there  day of atonement: it shall
be an holy convocation unto you; and ye sh your souls, and
offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

23:28 l do no work in that same day: for it is a day of
atonement, to make a for you before the LORD your God.

23:29 For whatsoever soul it be thot be afflicted in that
same day, he shall be cut off from among his p30 And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any work in that same day,
theul will I destroy from among his people.

23:31 Ye shall do no manner a statute for ever
throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
shall be unto you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict
your souls: nth day of the month at even, from even unto
even, shall ye celebrate th.

23:33 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 23:34 Speak unto theof Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month
shall be thtabernacles for seven days unto the LORD.

23:35 On the first day shaly convocation: ye shall do no
servile work therein.

23:36 Seven days fer an offering made by fire unto the
LORD: on the eighth day shall benvocation unto you; and ye
shall offer an offering made by fire unto t is a solemn
assembly; and ye shall do no servile work therein.

23:37e the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be
holy convocatier an offering made by fire unto the LORD, a
burnt offering, and a mea, a sacrifice, and drink offerings,
every thing upon his day: 23:38 Beabbaths of the LORD, and
beside your gifts, and beside all your vows,  all your
freewill offerings, which ye give unto the LORD.

23:39 Alsofteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have
gathered in the fruit o ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD
seven days: on the first day shalath, and on the eighth day
shall be a sabbath.

23:40 And ye shall take first day the boughs of goodly
trees, branches of palm trees, and thf thick trees, and
willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before tr God
seven days.

23:41 And ye shall keep it a feast unto the LORD sein the
year.

It shall be a statute for ever in your generations: ye sate
it in the seventh month.

23:42 Ye shall dwell in booths seven dayt are Israelites
born shall dwell in booths: 23:43 That your generatiow that
I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brough of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

23:44 And Moses declar children of Israel the feasts of the
LORD.

24:1 And the LORD spake u saying, 24:2 Command the children
of Israel, that they bring unto the olive beaten for the
light, to cause the lamps to burn continually.

ut the vail of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the
congregation, sorder it from the evening unto the morning
before the LORD continually be a statute for ever in your
generations.

24:4 He shall order the lthe pure candlestick before the
LORD continually.

24:5 And thou shalt flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof:
two tenth deals shall be in one:6 And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure
ta the LORD.

24:7 And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row, tbe on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the:8 Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD
continually,n from the children of Israel by an everlasting
covenant.

24:9 And itaron’s and his sons’; and they shall eat it in
the holy place: for holy unto him of the offerings of the
LORD made by fire by a perpetua

24:10 And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an
Egyptout among the children of Israel: and this son of the
Israelitish woman of Israel strove together in the camp;
24:11 And the Israelitish wom blasphemed the name of the Lord,
and cursed. And they brought him untand his mother’s name
was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tn:) 24:12 And
they put him in ward, that the mind of the LORD might bem.

24:13 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 24:14 Bring forth himsed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay
their hands upon head, and let all the congregation stone him.

24:15 And thou shalt spe children of Israel, saying,
Whosoever curseth his God shall bear his16 And he that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be
pu, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as
well the strahe that is born in the land, when he blasphemeth
the name of the Lord,ut to death.

24:17 And he that killeth any man shall surely be put to24:18 And he that killeth a beast shall make it good; beast for beast.d if a man cause a blemish in his neighbour; as he hath done,
so shalle to him; 24:20 Breach for breach, eye for eye,
tooth for tooth: as heed a blemish in a man, so shall it be
done to him again.

24:21 And heth a beast, he shall restore it: and he that
killeth a man, he shall bath.

24:22 Ye shall have one manner of law, as well for the stranger,e of your own country: for I am the LORD your God.

24:23 And Moses sp children of Israel, that they should
bring forth him that had cursed  camp, and stone him with
stones. And the children of Israel did as thmanded Moses.

25:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in mount Sinai, sayieak
unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into hich I give you, then shall the land keep a sabbath unto the
LORD.

25s thou shalt sow thy field, and six years thou shalt
prune thy vineyarer in the fruit thereof; 25:4 But in the
seventh year shall be a sabbaunto the land, a sabbath for
the LORD: thou shalt neither sow thy fielne thy vineyard.

25:5 That which groweth of its own accord of thy harshalt
not reap, neither gather the grapes of thy vine undressed: for ir of rest unto the land.

25:6 And the sabbath of the land shall be me; for thee, and
for thy servant, and for thy maid, and for thy hired snd for
thy stranger that sojourneth with thee.

25:7 And for thy cattl the beast that are in thy land, shall
all the increase thereof be meand thou shalt number seven sabbaths of years unto thee, seven
times se and the space of the seven sabbaths of years shall
be unto thee fortyyears.

25:9 Then shalt thou cause the trumpet of the jubile to sound th day of the seventh month, in the day of atonement shall ye make
theund throughout all your land.

25:10 And ye shall hallow the fiftieth proclaim liberty
throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants therall be
a jubile unto you; and ye shall return every man unto his possed ye shall return every man unto his family.

25:11 A jubile shall thah year be unto you: ye shall not sow,
neither reap that which groweth in it, nor gather the grapes
in it of thy vine undressed.

25:12 For iubile; it shall be holy unto you: ye shall eat
the increase thereof ouield.

25:13 In the year of this jubile ye shall return every man untossion.

25:14 And if thou sell ought unto thy neighbour, or buyest ougneighbours hand, ye shall not oppress one another: 25:15
According to  of years after the jubile thou shalt buy of
thy neighbour, and accordhe number of years of the fruits he
shall sell unto thee: 25:16 Accord multitude of years thou
shalt increase the price thereof, and accordifewness of
years thou shalt diminish the price of it: for according toer
of the years of the fruits doth he sell unto thee.

25:17 Ye shall fore oppress one another; but thou shalt fear
thy God:for I am the LOR.

25:18 Wherefore ye shall do my statutes, and keep my judgments, andand ye shall dwell in the land in safety.

25:19 And the land shall yiuit, and ye shall eat your fill,
and dwell therein in safety.

25:20 Ahall say, What shall we eat the seventh year? behold,
we shall not sower in our increase: 25:21 Then I will
command my blessing upon you in  year, and it shall bring
forth fruit for three years.

25:22 And ye she eighth year, and eat yet of old fruit until
the ninth year; until hcome in ye shall eat of the old
store.

25:23 The land shall not be sor: for the land is mine, for
ye are strangers and sojourners with me.
 in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a
redemption for th5:25 If thy brother be waxen poor, and hath sold away some of his
poss if any of his kin come to redeem it, then shall he
redeem that which e man have none to redeem it, and himself be able to
redeem it; 25:27 the years of the sale thereof, and
restore the overplus unto the man to whom he sold it; that he may
return unto his possession.

25:28 But f he be not able to restore it to him, then that which is
sold shall rthe hand of him that hath bought it until the
year of jubile: and in tit shall go out, and he shall return
unto his possession.

25:29 And ill a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may
redeem it within a wafter it is sold; within a full year may
he redeem it.

25:30 And if iedeemed within the space of a full year, then
the house that is in thety shall be established for ever to
him that bought it throughout his s: it shall not go out in
the jubile.

25:31 But the houses of the vilh have no wall round about
them shall be counted as the fields of the they may be
redeemed, and they shall go out in the jubile.

25:32 Notwng the cities of the Levites, and the houses of the
cities of their poay the Levites redeem at any time.

25:33 And if a man purchase of thethen the house that was
sold, and the city of his possession, shall go year of
jubile: for the houses of the cities of the Levites are theirn among the children of Israel.

25:34 But the field of the suburbs ofies may not be sold;
for it is their perpetual possession.

25:35 And other be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee;
then thou shalt re yea, though he be a stranger, or a
sojourner; that he may live with t6 Take thou no usury of him, or increase: but fear thy God; that
thy by live with thee.

25:37 Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury,him thy
victuals for increase.

25:38 I am the LORD your God, which brorth out of the land
of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to od.

25:39 And if thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, andnto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bondservant:
25:40 Bired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with
thee, and shall ser unto the year of jubile.

25:41 And then shall he depart from thee, b his children
with him, and shall return unto his own family, and untossion of his fathers shall he return.

25:42 For they are my servants,ought forth out of the land
of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmeThou shalt not rule over him with rigour; but shalt fear thy
God.

25: bondmen, and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have,
shall be of the he are round about you; of them shall ye buy
bondmen and bondmaids.

25: of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among
you, of them sy, and of their families that are with you,
which they begat in your lhey shall be your possession.

25:46 And ye shall take them as an inher your children after
you, to inherit them for a possession; they shalbondmen for
ever: but over your brethren the children of Israel, ye sh
one over another with rigour.

25:47 And if a sojourner or stranger w thee, and thy brother
that dwelleth by him wax poor, and sell himselfstranger or
sojourner by thee, or to the stock of the stranger’s fam
After that he is sold he may be redeemed again; one of his brethren
mhim: 25:49 Either his uncle, or his uncle’s son, may redeem
him, or  nigh of kin unto him of his family may redeem him;
or if he be able, deem himself.

25:50 And he shall reckon with him that bought him fromhat
he was sold to him unto the year of jubile: and the price of his se according unto the number of years, according to the time of
an hireshall it be with him.

25:51 If there be yet many years behind, accordhem he shall
give again the price of his redemption out of the money ts
bought for.

25:52 And if there remain but few years unto the year othen
he shall count with him, and according unto his years shall he gin the price of his redemption.

25:53 And as a yearly hired servant shwith him: and the
other shall not rule with rigour over him in thy sig And if he be not redeemed in these years, then he shall go out
in theubile, both he, and his children with him.

25:55 For unto me the chilre servants; they are my
servants whom I brought forth out of the landypt: I am the LORD
your God.

26:1 Ye shall make you no idols nor grav neither rear you up
a standing image, neither shall ye set up any imae in your
land, to bow down unto it: for I am the LORD your God.

26:2keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the
LORD.

26:3 If  my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;
26:4 Then I will ain in due season, and the land shall yield
her increase, and the treeeld shall yield their fruit.

26:5 And your threshing shall reach untoge, and the vintage
shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eatd to the
full, and dwell in your land safely.

26:6 And I will give pee land, and ye shall lie down, and
none shall make you afraid: and I wvil beasts out of the
land, neither shall the sword go through your laAnd ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you
by the6:8 And five of you shall chase an hundred, and an hundred of you
shalthousand to flight: and your enemies shall fall before
you by the sworor I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and
multiply yablish my covenant with you.

26:10 And ye shall eat old store, and brthe old because of
the new.

26:11 And I set my tabernacle among you: l shall not abhor
you.

26:12 And I will walk among you, and will be ynd ye shall be
my people.

26:13 I am the LORD your God, which broughth out of the land
of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and Iken the
bands of your yoke, and made you go upright.

26:14 But if ye hearken unto me, and will not do all these
commandments; 26:15 And if despise my statutes, or if your
soul abhor my judgments, so that ye wiall my commandments,
but that ye break my covenant: 26:16 I also will will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague,
 consume the eyes, and cause sorrow of heart: and ye shall
sow your se, for your enemies shall eat it.

26:17 And I will set my face againstye shall be slain before
your enemies: they that hate you shall reign nd ye shall
flee when none pursueth you.

26:18 And if ye will not yethis hearken unto me, then I will
punish you seven times more for your :19 And I will break the pride of your power; and I will make your
head your earth as brass: 26:20 And your strength shall
be spent in vain: land shall not yield her increase, neither
shall the trees of the laneir fruits.

26:21 And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearkto me; I
will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to you
26:22 I will also send wild beasts among you, which shall rob you of
ren, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number;
and your higll be desolate.

26:23 And if ye will not be reformed by me by these twill
walk contrary unto me; 26:24 Then will I also walk contrary unto will punish you yet seven times for your sins.

26:25 And I will bringpon you, that shall avenge the quarrel
of my covenant: and when ye aretogether within your cities,
I will send the pestilence among you; andbe delivered into
the hand of the enemy.

26:26 And when I have brokenof your bread, ten women shall
bake your bread in one oven, and they sver you your bread
again by weight: and ye shall eat, and not be satis7 And if ye will not for all this hearken unto me, but walk
contrary u:28 Then I will walk contrary unto you also in
fury; and I, even I, wie you seven times for your sins.

26:29 And ye shall eat the flesh of  and the flesh of your
daughters shall ye eat.

26:30 And I will destrh places, and cut down your images,
and cast your carcases upon the cayour idols, and my soul
shall abhor you.

26:31 And I will make your ce, and bring your sanctuaries
unto desolation, and I will not smell thof your sweet odours.

26:32 And I will bring the land into desolation enemies
which dwell therein shall be astonished at it.

26:33 And I wer you among the heathen, and will draw out a
sword after you: and youll be desolate, and your cities
waste.

26:34 Then shall the land enjobaths, as long as it lieth
desolate, and ye be in your enemies’ landshall the land
rest, and enjoy her sabbaths.

26:35 As long as it liete it shall rest; because it did not
rest in your sabbaths, when ye dwe.

26:36 And upon them that are left alive of you I will send a faintntheir hearts in the lands of their enemies; and the sound of a
shaken  chase them; and they shall flee, as fleeing from a
sword; and they shen none pursueth.

26:37 And they shall fall one upon another, as it w a sword,
when none pursueth: and ye shall have no power to stand befoemies.

26:38 And ye shall perish among the heathen, and the land of ys shall eat you up.

26:39 And they that are left of you shall pine aw iniquity
in your enemies’ lands; and also in the iniquities of theihall they pine away with them.

26:40 If they shall confess their iniqthe iniquity of their
fathers, with their trespass which they trespass me, and
that also they have walked contrary unto me; 26:41 And that I walked contrary unto them, and have brought them into the land of
the; if then their uncircumcised hearts be humbled, and they
then accept unishment of their iniquity: 26:42 Then will I
remember my covenant wiand also my covenant with Isaac, and
also my covenant with Abraham wiler; and I will remember the
land.

26:43 The land also shall be left o shall enjoy her
sabbaths, while she lieth desolate without them: and accept
of the punishment of their iniquity: because, even because theymy judgments, and because their soul abhorred my statutes.

26:44 And ll that, when they be in the land of their enemies,
I will not cast thither will I abhor them, to destroy them
utterly, and to break my covehem: for I am the LORD their
God.

26:45 But I will for their sakes re covenant of their
ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of the sight
of the heathen, that I might be their God: I am the LORD.

2 are the statutes and judgments and laws, which the LORD
made between e children of Israel in mount Sinai by the hand
of Moses.

27:1 And thke unto Moses, saying, 27:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say When a man shall make a
singular vow, the persons shall be for the LOestimation.

27:3 And thy estimation shall be of the male from twenty even unto sixty years old, even thy estimation shall be fifty shekels
 after the shekel of the sanctuary.

27:4 And if it be a female, then ation shall be thirty
shekels.

27:5 And if it be from five years old wenty years old, then
thy estimation shall be of the male twenty sheker the female
ten shekels.

27:6 And if it be from a month old even unts old, then thy
estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silverhe
female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver.

27:7 And ifrom sixty years old and above; if it be a male,
then thy estimation sfteen shekels, and for the female ten
shekels.

27:8 But if he be poory estimation, then he shall present
himself before the priest, and theall value him; according
to his ability that vowed shall the priest va
27:9 And if it be a beast, whereof men bring an offering unto the
LORt any man giveth of such unto the LORD shall be holy.

27:10 He shall it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad
for a good: and if he shl change beast for beast, then it and
the exchange thereof shall be ho1 And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not offer a
sacrifie LORD, then he shall present the beast before the
priest: 27:12 And tshall value it, whether it be good or
bad: as thou valuest it, who artt, so shall it be.

27:13 But if he will at all redeem it, then he shaifth part
thereof unto thy estimation.

27:14 And when a man shall sanhouse to be holy unto the
LORD, then the priest shall estimate it, whegood or bad: as
the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.

27:1 that sanctified it will redeem his house, then he
shall add the fifthe money of thy estimation unto it, and
it shall be his.

27:16 And if l sanctify unto the LORD some part of a field
of his possession, then ion shall be according to the seed
thereof: an homer of barley seed shued at fifty shekels of
silver.

27:17 If he sanctify his field from tf jubile, according to
thy estimation it shall stand.

27:18 But if hefield after the jubile, then the priest
shall reckon unto him the moneording to the years that remain,
even unto the year of the jubile, andbe abated from thy
estimation.

27:19 And if he that sanctified the fin any wise redeem it,
then he shall add the fifth part of the money ofmation unto
it, and it shall be assured to him.

27:20 And if he will  the field, or if he have sold the
field to another man, it shall not d any more.

27:21 But the field, when it goeth out in the jubile, shaly
unto the LORD, as a field devoted; the possession thereof shall be t’s.

27:22 And if a man sanctify unto the LORD a field which he hatwhich is not of the fields of his possession; 27:23 Then the
priest shn unto him the worth of thy estimation, even unto
the year of the jubi shall give thine estimation in that
day, as a holy thing unto the LORIn the year of the jubile the field shall return unto him of
whom it w even to him to whom the possession of the land did
belong.

27:25 Andstimations shall be according to the shekel of the
sanctuary: twenty gl be the shekel.

27:26 Only the firstling of the beasts, which shouldRD’s
firstling, no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox, or sheepe LORD’s.

27:27 And if it be of an unclean beast, then he shall redording to thine estimation, and shall add a fifth part of it
thereto: e not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to
thy estimation.

27thstanding no devoted thing, that a man shall devote unto
the LORD of  hath, both of man and beast, and of the field
of his possession, shalr redeemed: every devoted thing is
most holy unto the LORD.

27:29 Nonwhich shall be devoted of men, shall be redeemed;
but shall surely be th.

27:30 And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the lf the fruit of the tree, is the LORD’s: it is holy unto the LORD.

2f a man will at all redeem ought of his tithes, he shall
add thereto tpart thereof.

27:32 And concerning the tithe of the herd, or of the f of
whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the:33 He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he
chnd if he change it at all, then both it and the change
thereof shall b shall not be redeemed.

27:34 These are the commandments, which the Lded Moses for
the children of Israel in mount Sinai.




The Fourth Bos:  Called Numbers


1:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderne, in the
tabernacle of the congregation, on the first day of the seconn the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt,
sayine ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of
Israel, after lies, by the house of their fathers, with the
number of their names, e by their polls; 1:3 From twenty
years old and upward, all that are aborth to war in Israel:
thou and Aaron shall number them by their armie with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head
of the hs fathers.

1:5 And these are the names of the men that shall stand wif
the tribe of Reuben; Elizur the son of Shedeur.

1:6 Of Simeon; Shelon of Zurishaddai.

1:7 Of Judah; Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

1:8 Or; Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

1:9 Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon.he children of Joseph: of Ephraim; Elishama the son of
Ammihud: of Manmaliel the son of Pedahzur.

1:11 Of Benjamin; Abidan the son of GideoOf Dan; Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

1:13 Of Asher; Pagiel the son
1:14 Of Gad; Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

1:15 Of Naphtali; Ahira the n.

1:16 These were the renowned of the congregation, princes of the
their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel.

1:17 And Moses and Aaron  men which are expressed by their
names: 1:18 And they assembled all tation together on the
first day of the second month, and they declaredigrees after
their families, by the house of their fathers, according ber
of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls.

1 LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the
wilderness of Sinai. the children of Reuben, Israel’s eldest son, by their
generations, r families, by the house of their fathers,
according to the number of s, by their polls, every male from
twenty years old and upward, all thto go forth to war;
1:21 Those that were numbered of them, even of thend six thousand and five hundred.

1:22 Of the children of Simeon, by ir
families, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered of
them, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male
from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to3 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of
Simeon, were ine thousand and three hundred.

1:24 Of the children of Gad, by their, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to thf
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to g war; 1:25 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Gad,y and five thousand six hundred and fifty.

1:26 Of the children of Jueir generations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, to the number of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all thate able to go
forth to war; 1:27 Those that were numbered of them, evenf the tribe
of Judah, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hu28 Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after their
famihe house of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from rs old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:29 Those tumbered of them, even of the tribe
of Issachar, were fifty and four thfour hundred.

1:30 Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, 
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
tom twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war;e that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Zebulun, were fiftyhousand and four hundred.

1:32 Of the children of Joseph, namely, of n of Ephraim, by
their generations, after their families, by the houseathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old
anll that were able to go forth to war; 1:33 Those that
were numbered ofhem, even of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty
thousand and five hundref the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after their
familiesuse of their fathers, according to the number of
the names, from twentd and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war; 1:35 Those that wred of them, even of the tribe
of Manasseh, were thirty and two thousahundred.

1:36 Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, aftemilies, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of
the m twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
forth to war;  that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Benjamin, were thirtthousand and four hundred.

1:38 Of the children of Dan, by their geneter their
families, by the house of their fathers, according to the nue names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go
fo 1:39 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
of Dan, were and two thousand and seven hundred.

1:40 Of the children of Asher, berations, after their
families, by the house of their fathers, accordiumber of
the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were abrth to war; 1:41 Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe
ore forty and one thousand and five hundred.

1:42 Of the children of Nroughout their generations, after
their families, by the house of theiaccording to the number
of the names, from twenty years old and upward were able to
go forth to war; 1:43 Those that were numbered of them, tribe of Naphtali, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.

1:e those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaron
numbered, and the prf Israel, being twelve men: each one was
for the house of his fathers. were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel,
by the heir fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all
that were able to gwar in Israel; 1:46 Even all they that
were numbered were six hundred nd three thousand and five
hundred and fifty.

1:47 But the Levites afibe of their fathers were not
numbered among them.

1:48 For the LORD  unto Moses, saying, 1:49 Only thou shalt
not number the tribe of Levitake the sum of them among the
children of Israel: 1:50 But thou shaltites over the
tabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereod over
all things that belong to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, a vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp
rothe tabernacle.

1:51 And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Lev take
it down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites s up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.

1:52 Anren of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by
his own camp, and y his own standard, throughout their
hosts.

1:53 But the Levites shalund about the tabernacle of
testimony, that there be no wrath upon theon of the
children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge ofnacle of testimony.

1:54 And the children of Israel did according to he LORD
commanded Moses, so did they.

2:1 And the LORD spake unto Moso Aaron, saying, 2:2 Every
man of the children of Israel shall pitch bstandard, with
the ensign of their father’s house: far off about thee of
the congregation shall they pitch.

2:3 And on the east side towaing of the sun shall they of
the standard of the camp of Judah pitch their armies: and
Nahshon the son of Amminadab shall be captain of the f
Judah.

2:4 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, werere and fourteen thousand and six hundred.

2:5 And those that do pitch him shall be the tribe of
Issachar: and Nethaneel the son of Zuar shaain of the
children of Issachar.

2:6 And his host, and those that wer thereof, were fifty and
four thousand and four hundred.

2:7 Then theZebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon shall be
captain of the children o

2:8 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty ahousand and four hundred.

2:9 All that were numbered in the camp of Jan hundred
thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hroughout their armies. These shall first set forth.

2:10 On the southl be the standard of the camp of Reuben
according to their armies: andain of the children of Reuben
shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.

2:1 host, and those that were numbered thereof, were forty
and six thousae hundred.

2:12 And those which pitch by him shall be the tribe of Sihe captain of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of
Zur
2:13 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty
aousand and three hundred.

2:14 Then the tribe of Gad: and the captains of Gad shall
be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.

2:15 And his host, and twere numbered of them, were forty
and five thousand and six hundred anl that were numbered in the camp of Reuben were an hundred
thousand annd one thousand and four hundred and fifty,
throughout their armies. All set forth in the second rank.

2:17 Then the tabernacle of the conghall set forward with
the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp encamp, so
shall they set forward, every man in his place by their st2:18 On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim
acc their armies: and the captain of the sons of Ephraim
shall be Elishamn of Ammihud.

2:19 And his host, and those that were numbered of themrty
thousand and five hundred.

2:20 And by him shall be the tribe of  and the captain of the
children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the sonzur.

2:21 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thtwo thousand and two hundred.

2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin: and thn of the sons of
Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.

2:23 An, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty
and five thousand undred.

2:24 All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were an huusand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies.
And l go forward in the third rank.

2:25 The standard of the camp of Dan on the north side by
their armies: and the captain of the children of be Ahiezer
the son of Ammishaddai.

2:26 And his host, and those that ered of them, were
threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.

2:2e that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the
captain of ten of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran.

2:28 And his host, and  were numbered of them, were forty
and one thousand and five hundred.
he tribe of Naphtali: and the captain of the children of
Naphtali shalra the son of Enan.

2:30 And his host, and those that were numbered oere fifty
and three thousand and four hundred.

2:31 All they that werd in the camp of Dan were an hundred
thousand and fifty and seven thouix hundred. They shall go
hindmost with their standards.

2:32 These ahich were numbered of the children of Israel by
the house of their fatl those that were numbered of the camps
throughout their hosts were sithousand and three thousand
and five hundred and fifty.

2:33 But the were not numbered among the children of Israel;
as the LORD commanded 34 And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD
comma: so they pitched by their standards, and so they set
forward, every oheir families, according to the house of
their fathers.

3:1 These alsgenerations of Aaron and Moses in the day that
the LORD spake with Most Sinai.

3:2 And these are the names of the sons of Aaron; Nadab the ,
and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

3:3 These are the names of the son, the priests which were
anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in s office.

3:4 And Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they onge fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had
no and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest’s office
in the sigon their father.

3:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 3:6 Bring of Levi
near, and present them before Aaron the priest, that they mayunto him.

3:7 And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the wgation before the tabernacle of the congregation, to do the
service ofnacle.

3:8 And they shall keep all the instruments of the tabernacle gregation, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the
servicebernacle.

3:9 And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sare wholly given unto him out of the children of Israel.

3:10 And tho appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall wait on
their priest’s od the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put
to death.

3:11 And the L unto Moses, saying, 3:12 And I, behold, I have
taken the Levites frome children of Israel instead of all the
firstborn that openeth the mat the children of Israel:
therefore the Levites shall be mine; 3:13 Beche firstborn
are mine; for on the day that I smote all the firstborn id of
Egypt I hallowed unto me all the firstborn in Israel, both man anmine shall they be: I am the LORD.

3:14 And the LORD spake unto Moseswilderness of Sinai, saying,
3:15 Number the children of Levi after thof their fathers, by
their families: every male from a month old and ult thou
number them.

3:16 And Moses numbered them according to the wo LORD, as he
was commanded.

3:17 And these were the sons of Levi by ts; Gershon, and
Kohath, and Merari.

3:18 And these are the names of t Gershon by their families;
Libni, and Shimei.

3:19 And the sons of Kheir families; Amram, and Izehar,
Hebron, and Uzziel.

3:20 And the soari by their families; Mahli, and Mushi. These
are the families of theaccording to the house of their
fathers.

3:21 Of Gershon was the fami Libnites, and the family of the
Shimites: these are the families of tites.

3:22 Those that were numbered of them, according to the number  males, from a month old and upward, even those that were numbered
of  seven thousand and five hundred.

3:23 The families of the Gershoniteitch behind the tabernacle
westward.

3:24 And the chief of the house ther of the Gershonites shall
be Eliasaph the son of Lael.

3:25 And tof the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the
congregation shall be acle, and the tent, the covering
thereof, and the hanging for the doortabernacle of the
congregation, 3:26 And the hangings of the court, antain for
the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and by theund about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof.

3:27 And  was the family of the Amramites, and the family of
the Izeharites, anly of the Hebronites, and the family of
the Uzzielites: these are the of the Kohathites.

3:28 In the number of all the males, from a month rd, were
eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the san.

3:29 The families of the sons of Kohath shall pitch on the side of acle southward.

3:30 And the chief of the house of the father of the of the
Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.

3:31 And theiall be the ark, and the table, and the
candlestick, and the altars, anls of the sanctuary
wherewith they minister, and the hanging, and all ce thereof.

3:32 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be chi
chief of the Levites, and have the oversight of them that keep the
che sanctuary.

3:33 Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the fe
Mushites: these are the families of Merari.

3:34 And those that werof them, according to the number of
all the males, from a month old an were six thousand and two
hundred.

3:35 And the chief of the house oer of the families of
Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail: these shal the side of
the tabernacle northward.

3:36 And under the custody and the sons of Merari shall be
the boards of the tabernacle, and the barand the pillars
thereof, and the sockets thereof, and all the vessels d all
that serveth thereto, 3:37 And the pillars of the court round abheir sockets, and their pins, and their cords.

3:38 But those that en the tabernacle toward the east, even
before the tabernacle of the conastward, shall be Moses,
and Aaron and his sons, keeping the charge ofary for the
charge of the children of Israel; and the stranger that cohall be put to death.

3:39 All that were numbered of the Levites, whid Aaron
numbered at the commandment of the LORD, throughout their famithe males from a month old and upward, were twenty and two
thousand.

he LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of the
males of the  Israel from a month old and upward, and take
the number of their namend thou shalt take the Levites for me (I am the LORD) instead of
all tn among the children of Israel; and the cattle of the
Levites instead e firstlings among the cattle of the children
of Israel.

3:42 And Mosed, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstborn
among the children of:43 And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a month
ord, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty and
two thousand  and threescore and thirteen.

3:44 And the LORD spake unto Moses, sayake the Levites
instead of all the firstborn among the children of Isre
cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall am the LORD.

3:46 And for those that are to be redeemed of the two hthreescore and thirteen of the firstborn of the children of Israel,
whre than the Levites; 3:47 Thou shalt even take five
shekels apiece by ter the shekel of the sanctuary shalt
thou take them: (the shekel is ts:) 3:48 And thou shalt
give the money, wherewith the odd number of th redeemed,
unto Aaron and to his sons.

3:49 And Moses took the redemp of them that were over and
above them that were redeemed by the Levit the firstborn of
the children of Israel took he the money; a thousanddred and
threescore and five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuard Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to
hiccording to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commanded
Moses.

4:1 An spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 4:2 Take the
sum of the sonsfrom among the sons of Levi, after their
families, by the house of the 4:3 From thirty years old and
upward even until fifty years old, all into the host, to do
the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.

shall be the service of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle
of the co, about the most holy things: 4:5 And when the camp
setteth forward, Acome, and his sons, and they shall take
down the covering vail, and cok of testimony with it: 4:6
And shall put thereon the covering of badg skins, and shall spread
over it a cloth wholly of blue, and shall put staves thereof.

4:7 And upon the table of shewbread they shall spreaf blue,
and put thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and cover withal: and the continual bread shall be thereon: 4:8 And
they ad upon them a cloth of scarlet, and cover the same
with a covering ofs’ skins, and shall put in the staves
thereof.

4:9 And they shall testick of
the light, and his lamps, and his tongs, and his snuffdishesoil vessels thereof, wherewith they minister unto it: 4:10 And
they shall put it and all the vessels thereof within a covering of
badgers’kins, and shall put it upon a bar.

4:11 And upon the golden altar theread a cloth of blue, and
cover it with a covering of badgers’ skinsl put to the
staves thereof: 4:12 And they shall take all the instrumeistry, wherewith they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a
clo, and cover them with a covering of badgers’ skins, and
shall put thr: 4:13 And they shall take away the ashes from
the altar, and spread oth thereon: 4:14 And they shall put
upon it all the vessels thereof,  they minister about it,
even the censers, the fleshhooks, and the shothe basons, all
the vessels of the altar; and they shall spread upon ing of
badgers’ skins, and put to the staves of it.

4:15 And when Aa sons have made an end of covering the
sanctuary, and all the vessels ctuary, as the camp is to set
forward; after that, the sons of Kohath  to bear it: but
they shall not touch any holy thing, lest they die. T are
the burden of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the
congreg6 And to the office of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest
pertaineth r the light, and the sweet incense, and the daily
meat offering, and tting oil, and the oversight of all the
tabernacle, and of all that the in the sanctuary, and in the
vessels thereof.

4:17 And the LORD spakses and unto Aaron saying, 4:18 Cut ye
not off the tribe of the familiKohathites from among the
Levites: 4:19 But thus do unto them, that thve, and not die,
when they approach unto the most holy things: Aaron a shall
go in, and appoint them every one to his service and to his burBut they shall not go in to see when the holy things are covered,
lest

4:21 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 4:22 Take also the sum o of Gershon, throughout the houses of their fathers, by their
families thirty years old and upward until fifty years old
shalt thou number that enter in to perform the service, to
do the work in the tabernacle gregation.

4:24 This is the service of the families of the Gershonitee,
and for burdens: 4:25 And they shall bear the curtains of the
taber the tabernacle of the congregation, his covering, and
the covering ofrs’ skins that is above upon it, and the
hanging for the door of thee of the congregation, 4:26 And
the hangings of the court, and the hane door of the gate of
the court, which is by the tabernacle and by theund about,
and their cords, and all the instruments of their service, at is made for them: so shall they serve.

4:27 At the appointment of his sons shall be all the service
of the sons of the Gershonites, in aurdens, and in all their
service: and ye shall appoint unto them in chtheir burdens.

4:28 This is the service of the families of the sons on the
tabernacle of the congregation: and their charge shall be under f Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

4:29 As for the sons of Merarit number them after their
families, by the house of their fathers; 4:3rty years old
and upward even unto fifty years old shalt thou number t one
that entereth into the service, to do the work of the tabernacle regation.

4:31 And this is the charge of their burden, according to aervice in the tabernacle of the congregation; the boards of the
tabernthe bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and sockets
thereof, 4:32 Allars of the court round about, and their
sockets, and their pins, ands, with all their instruments,
and with all their service: and by namereckon the
instruments of the charge of their burden.

4:33 This is thf the families of the sons of Merari,
according to all their service, ernacle of the congregation,
under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aarot.

4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the chief of the congregation numbereof the Kohathites after their families, and after the house
of their f5 From thirty years old and upward even unto
fifty years old, every oninto the service, for the
work in the tabernacle of the congregation: 36 And those that were
numbered of them by their families were two thon hundred and
fifty.

4:37 These were they that were numbered of the fthe
Kohathites, all that might do service in the tabernacle of the
con, which Moses and Aaron did number according to the
commandment of thee hand of Moses.

4:38 And those that were numbered of the sons of Gerughout
their families, and by the house of their fathers, 4:39 From thold and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that
entereth intoce, for the work in the tabernacle of the
congregation, 4:40 Even those numbered of them, throughout
their families, by the house of their f two thousand and
six hundred and thirty.

4:41 These are they that we of the families of the sons of
Gershon, of all that might do service rnacle of the
congregation, whom Moses and Aaron did number according mandment of the LORD.

4:42 And those that were numbered of the familie sons of
Merari, throughout their families, by the house of their fatFrom thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one
eth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the
congregatien those that were numbered of them after their
families, were three t two hundred.

4:45 These be those that were numbered of the families  of
Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of thethe hand of Moses.

4:46 All those that were numbered of the Levites,  and Aaron
and the chief of Israel numbered, after their families, andhouse of their fathers, 4:47 From thirty years old and upward even
untars old, every one that came to do the service of the
ministry, and thf the burden in the tabernacle of the
congregation.

4:48 Even those tmbered of them, were eight thousand and
five hundred and fourscore, 4:ng to the commandment of the
LORD they were numbered by the hand of Mo one according to
his service, and according to his burden: thus were red of
him, as the LORD commanded Moses.

5:1 And the LORD spake unto ing, 5:2 Command the children of
Israel, that they put out of the camper, and every one that
hath an issue, and whosoever is defiled by the Both male and
female shall ye put out, without the camp shall ye put tthey
defile not their camps, in the midst whereof I dwell.

5:4 And thn of Israel did so, and put them out without the
camp: as the LORD spases, so did the children of Israel.

5:5 And the LORD spake unto Moses5:6 Speak unto the children
of Israel, When a man or woman shall commithat men commit,
to do a trespass against the LORD, and that person be7 Then
they shall confess their sin which they have done: and he shalle his trespass with the principal thereof, and add unto it
the fifth pof, and give it unto him against whom he hath
trespassed.

5:8 But if ve no kinsman to recompense the trespass unto,
let the trespass be recto the LORD, even to the priest;
beside the ram of the atonement, whernement shall be made
for him.

5:9 And every offering of all the holy he children of
Israel, which they bring unto the priest, shall be his.every man’s hallowed things shall be his: whatsoever any man
giveth  it shall be his.

5:11 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 5:12 Sphe
children of Israel, and say unto them, If any man’s wife go asideit a trespass against him, 5:13 And a man lie with her carnally,
and iom the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and she
be defiled, and witness against her, neither she be taken
with the manner; 5:14 And tf jealousy come upon him, and he
be jealous of his wife, and she be de if the spirit of
jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wifbe not
defiled: 5:15 Then shall the man bring his wife unto the priestall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah of
barley mall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincense
thereon; for it is an ofjealousy, an offering of memorial,
bringing iniquity to remembrance.

e priest shall bring her near, and set her before the LORD:
5:17 And t shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of
the dust that is i of the tabernacle the priest shall take,
and put it into the water: 5riest shall set the woman
before the LORD, and uncover the woman’s hd put the offering of
memorial in her hands, which is the jealousy off the priest
shall have in his hand the bitter water that causeth the cAnd the priest shall charge her by an oath, and say unto the woman, Ifve lain with thee, and if thou hast not gone aside to
uncleanness withnstead of thy husband, be thou free from
this bitter water that causete: 5:20 But if thou hast gone
aside to another instead of thy husband,ou be defiled, and
some man have lain with thee beside thine husband: he
priest shall charge the woman with an oath of cursing, and the prieay unto the woman, The LORD make thee a curse and an oath among
thy pehe LORD doth make thy thigh to rot, and thy belly to
swell; 5:22 And that causeth the curse shall go into thy
bowels, to make thy belly to sthy thigh to rot: And the
woman shall say, Amen, amen.

5:23 And the pl write these curses in a book, and he shall
blot them out with the bi5:24 And he shall cause the woman
to drink the bitter water that causee: and the water that
causeth the curse shall enter into her, and beco

5:25 Then the priest shall take the jealousy offering out of the
womhand, and shall wave the offering before the LORD, and offer
it upon t:26 And the priest shall take an handful of the
offering, even the memreof, and burn it upon the altar, and
afterward shall cause the woman he water.

5:27 And when he hath made her to drink the water, then it 
to pass, that, if she be defiled, and have done trespass against her
hat the water that causeth the curse shall enter into her,
and become d her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall rot:
and the woman shall  among her people.

5:28 And if the woman be not defiled, but be cleanshall be
free, and shall conceive seed.

5:29 This is the law of jealo a wife goeth aside to another
instead of her husband, and is defiled;en the spirit of
jealousy cometh upon him, and he be jealous over his shall
set the woman before the LORD, and the priest shall execute uponw.

5:31 Then shall the man be guiltless from iniquity, and this womanr her iniquity.

6:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 6:2 Speak ildren
of Israel, and say unto them, When either man or woman shall seselves to vow a vow of a Nazarite, to separate themselves unto the
LORshall separate himself from wine and strong drink, and
shall drink no  wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neither
shall he drink any liquor oor eat moist grapes, or dried.

6:4 All the days of his separation shanothing that is made
of the vine tree, from the kernels even to the hull the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razor
come upod: until the days be fulfilled, in the which he
separateth himself unt, he shall be holy, and shall let the
locks of the hair of his head grll the days that he separateth himself unto the LORD he shall
come at dy.

6:7 He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his
r his brother, or for his sister, when they die: because the
consecrats God is upon his head.

6:8 All the days of his separation he is holyORD.

6:9 And if any man die very suddenly by him, and he hath defiledof his consecration; then he shall shave his head in the day of
his cl the seventh day shall he shave it.

6:10 And on the eighth day he shatwo turtles, or two young
pigeons, to the priest, to the door of the tof the
congregation: 6:11 And the priest shall offer the one for a sin and the other for a burnt offering, and make an atonement
for him, fo sinned by the dead, and shall hallow his head
that same day.

6:12 An consecrate unto the LORD the days of his separation,
and shall bring the first year for a trespass offering: but
the days that were before st, because his separation was
defiled.

6:13 And this is the law of t when the days of his
separation are fulfilled: he shall be brought unor of the
tabernacle of the congregation: 6:14 And he shall offer his nto the LORD, one he lamb of the first year without blemish for a
burnng, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish for
a sin offerm without blemish for peace offerings, 6:15
And a basket of unleavenedead, cakes of fine flour mingled with
oil, and wafers of unleavened brted with oil, and their meat
offering, and their drink offerings.

6:1riest shall bring them before the LORD, and shall offer
his sin offeris burnt offering: 6:17 And he shall offer the
ram for a sacrifice of pngs unto the LORD, with the basket
of unleavened bread: the priest shaalso his meat offering,
and his drink offering.

6:18 And the Nazariteve the head of his separation at the
door of the tabernacle of the con, and shall take the hair of
the head of his separation, and put it in which is under the
sacrifice of the peace offerings.

6:19 And the pr take the sodden shoulder of the ram, and one
unleavened cake out of t and one unleavened wafer, and shall
put them upon the hands of the Nafter the hair of his
separation is shaven: 6:20 And the priest shall wr a wave
offering before the LORD: this is holy for the priest, with teast and heave shoulder: and after that the Nazarite may drink wine.

is is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed, and of his
offering untofor his separation, beside that that his hand
shall get: according to ich he vowed, so he must do after
the law of his separation.

6:22 And spake unto Moses, saying, 6:23 Speak unto Aaron and
unto his sons, sahis wise ye shall bless the children of
Israel, saying unto them, 6:24bless thee, and keep thee:
6:25 The LORD make his face shine upon theeracious unto
thee: 6:26 The LORD lift up his countenance upon thee, ane
peace.

6:27 And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel,ll bless them.

7:1 And it came to pass on the day that Moses had fulle
tabernacle, and had anointed it, and sanctified it, and all the
instereof, both the altar and all the vessels thereof, and
had anointed thnctified them; 7:2 That the princes of
Israel, heads of the house of trs, who were the princes of
the tribes, and were over them that were nfered: 7:3 And
they brought their offering before the LORD, six coverend
twelve oxen; a wagon for two of the princes, and for each one an ox brought them before the tabernacle.

7:4 And the LORD spake unto Mose, 7:5 Take it of them, that
they may be to do the service of the taberhe congregation;
and thou shalt give them unto the Levites, to every mg to
his service.

7:6 And Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gavto the
Levites.

7:7 Two wagons and four oxen he gave unto the sons ofaccording to their service: 7:8 And four wagons and eight oxen he gavesons of Merari, according unto their service, under the hand
of Ithamaf Aaron the priest.

7:9 But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: becrvice of
the sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear u
shoulders.

7:10 And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar y
that it was anointed, even the princes offered their offering beforer.

7:11 And the LORD said unto Moses, They shall offer their offeringnce on his day, for the dedicating of the altar.

7:12 And he that offffering the first day was Nahshon the
son of Amminadab, of the tribe o:13 And his offering was one
silver charger, the weight thereof was and thirty shekels,
one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekelnctuary;
both of them were full of fine flour mingled with oil for a mng: 7:14 One spoon of ten shekels of gold, full of incense: 7:15
One yck, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt
offering: 7:16 Onhe goats for a sin offering: 7:17 And for a
sacrifice of peace offerinxen, five rams, five he goats, five
lambs of the first year: this was ing of Nahshon the son of
Amminadab.

7:18 On the second day Nethaneelf Zuar, prince of Issachar,
did offer: 7:19 He offered for his offerinlver charger, the
weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, onwl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of themne flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:20 One spoon of
gold ekels, full of incense: 7:21 One young bullock, one ram,
one lamb of tear, for a burnt offering: 7:22 One kid of the
goats for a sin offerind for a sacrifice of peace offerings,
two oxen, five rams, five he goas of the first year: this
was the offering of Nethaneel the son of ZuaOn the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children
of Zeb offer: 7:25 His offering was one silver charger, the
weight whereof w bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of til for a meat offering: 7:26 One golden
spoon of ten shekels, full of e: 7:27 One young bullock, one
ram, one lamb of the first year, for a  a sin offering: 7:29 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxent
year: this was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.

7:30 On the e
children of Reuben, did offer: 7:31 His offering was one silver
charels, one silver
bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanct oil for a meat offering: 7:32 One
golden spoon of ten shekels, full o, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:34 One
kid of th for a sin offering: 7:35 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two  rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offerizur the son of Shedeur.

7:36 On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Z, prince of the
children of Simeon, did offer: 7:37 His offering was ocharger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one
sil seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them fulllour mingled with oil for a meat offering:
7:38 One golden spoon of te full of incense: 7:39 One young
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the firr a burnt offering:
7:40 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:41sacrifice
of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, fivehe first year: this was the offering of Shelumiel the son of
ZurishaddOn the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the
children of ed: 7:43 His offering was one silver charger of
the weight of an hundrrty shekels, a silver bowl of seventy
shekels, after the shekel of the both of them full of fine
flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:e golden spoon of
ten shekels, full of incense: 7:45 One young bullock one
lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:46 One kid of the a sin offering: 7:47 And for a sacrifice of peace offerings,
two oxens, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this
was the offering h the son of Deuel.

7:48 On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihof the
children of Ephraim, offered: 7:49 His offering was one silver
he weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one
silver bowl ohekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them full of fine fed with oil for a meat offering:
7:50 One golden spoon of ten shekels,ncense: 7:51 One young
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, foffering:
7:52 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:53 And for a
of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs ofst year: this was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.

7:54 Ohth day offered Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of
the children o 7:55 His offering was one silver charger of
the weight of an hundred  shekels, one silver bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the  both of them full
of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:olden
spoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:57 One young bullock, oe lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:58 One kid of
the go sin offering: 7:59 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five he goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of he son of Pedahzur.

7:60 On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, the
children of Benjamin, offered: 7:61 His offering was one silver
ch weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one
silver bowl of kels, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
both of them full of fine flo with oil for a meat offering:
7:62 One golden spoon of ten shekels, fense: 7:63 One young
bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, forfering:
7:64 One kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:65 And for a sf peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of
tear: this was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.

7:66 On the Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the
children of Dan, offeredg was one silver charger,
the weight whereof was an hundred and thirtys, one silver bowl
of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctua them
full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:68 Onpoon of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:69 One young bullock,
one ram,of the first year, for a burnt offering: 7:70 One
kid of the goats forering: 7:71 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rame goats, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Ahieze of Ammishaddai.

7:72 On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, pre
children of Asher, offered: 7:73 His offering was one silver chargerht whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl
of seven, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them
full of fine flour mh oil for a meat offering: 7:74 One
golden spoon of ten shekels, full  7:75 One young bullock,
one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a bung: 7:76 One
kid of the goats for a sin offering: 7:77 And for a sacriace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the fthis was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran.

7:78 On the twelftha the son of Enan, prince of the children
of Naphtali, offered: 7:79 H was one silver charger, the
weight whereof was an hundred and thirty ne silver bowl of
seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; m full
of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering: 7:80 One go of ten shekels, full of incense: 7:81 One young bullock, one
ram, onee first year, for a burnt offering: 7:82 One kid of
the goats for a si: 7:83 And for a sacrifice of peace
offerings, two oxen, five rams, fi, five lambs of the first
year: this was the offering of Ahira the son
7:84 This was the dedication of the altar, in the day when it was
anothe princes of Israel: twelve chargers of silver, twelve
silver bowls,poons of gold: 7:85 Each charger of silver
weighing an hundred and this, each bowl seventy: all the
silver vessels weighed two thousand and ed shekels, after
the shekel of the sanctuary: 7:86 The golden spoons e, full
of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of try: all the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twenty
shekels.

7:8oxen for the burnt offering were twelve bullocks, the
rams twelve, thef the first year twelve, with their meat
offering: and the kids of the sin offering twelve.

7:88 And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the ings were
twenty and four bullocks, the rams sixty, the he goats sixty of the first year sixty. This was the dedication of the altar,
after  anointed.

7:89 And when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the co
to speak with him, then he heard the voice of one speaking unto him
f mercy seat that was upon the ark of testimony, from
between the two cand he spake unto him.

8:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:2 Aaron and
say unto him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lampsve
light over against the candlestick.

8:3 And Aaron did so; he lights thereof over against the
candlestick, as the LORD commanded Moses.

is work of the candlestick was of beaten gold, unto the
shaft thereof,flowers thereof, was beaten work: according
unto the pattern which theshewed Moses, so he made the
candlestick.

8:5 And the LORD spake untoying, 8:6 Take the Levites from
among the children of Israel, and clea
8:7 And thus shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them: Sprinkle watering upon them, and let them shave all their flesh, and let
them wash tes, and so make themselves clean.

8:8 Then let them take a young bullhis meat offering, even
fine flour mingled with oil, and another youngalt thou take
for a sin offering.

8:9 And thou shalt bring the Levitehe tabernacle of the
congregation: and thou shalt gather the whole assthe children
of Israel together: 8:10 And thou shalt bring the Leviteshe
LORD: and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon the
Lev And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD for an
offering of ren of Israel, that they may execute the service
of the LORD.

8:12 Antes shall lay their hands upon the heads of the
bullocks: and thou shahe one for a sin offering, and the
other for a burnt offering, unto th, to make an atonement for
the Levites.

8:13 And thou shalt set the Lfore Aaron, and before his sons,
and offer them for an offering unto t shalt thou separate the Levites from among the children of
Israel: anes shall be mine.

8:15 And after that shall the Levites go in to do tice of the
tabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt cleanse themr
them for an offering.

8:16 For they are wholly given unto me from achildren of
Israel; instead of such as open every womb, even instead otborn of all the children of Israel, have I taken them unto me.

8:17 he firstborn of the children of Israel are mine, both
man and beast: othat I smote every firstborn in the land of
Egypt I sanctified them fo

8:18 And I have taken the Levites for all the firstborn of the
childael.

8:19 And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his  among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children
of Ise tabernacle of the congregation, and to make an
atonement for the chisrael: that there be no plague among
the children of Israel, when the f Israel come nigh unto the
sanctuary.

8:20 And Moses, and Aaron, andcongregation of the children of
Israel, did to the Levites according uat the LORD commanded
Moses concerning the Levites, so did the childreel unto them.

8:21 And the Levites were purified, and they washed the and
Aaron offered them as an offering before the LORD; and Aaron madeent for them to cleanse them.

8:22 And after that went the Levites inir service in the
tabernacle of the congregation before Aaron, and befons: as
the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did thm.

8:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 8:24 This is it that
bnto the Levites: from twenty and five years old and upward
they shall o wait upon the service of the tabernacle of the
congregation: 8:25 Anage of fifty years they shall cease
waiting upon the service thereof, erve no more: 8:26 But
shall minister with their brethren in the tabere
congregation, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shalunto the Levites touching their charge.

9:1 And the LORD spake unto M wilderness of Sinai, in the
first month of the second year after theyout of the land of
Egypt, saying, 9:2 Let the children of Israel also ssover
at his appointed season.

9:3 In the fourteenth day of this monn, ye shall keep it in
his appointed season: according to all the rited according
to all the ceremonies thereof, shall ye keep it.

9:4 And e unto the children of Israel, that they should keep
the passover.

9:kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first
month at even in ess of Sinai: according to all that the
LORD commanded Moses, so did t of Israel.

9:6 And there were certain men, who were defiled by the d a
man, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they ca Moses and before Aaron on that day: 9:7 And those men said unto
him, iled by the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept
back, that we maer an offering of the LORD in his appointed
season among the children   9:8 And Moses said unto them,
Stand still, and I will hear what the ommand concerning
you.

9:9 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 9:1nto the
children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your poste be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be in a journey afar
off, yetkeep the passover unto the LORD.

9:11 The fourteenth day of the seconeven they shall keep
it, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter h12 They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone
ofding to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keep
it.

9:13 B that is clean, and is not in a journey, and
forbeareth to keep the paen the same soul shall be cut off
from among his people: because he brhe offering of the LORD
in his appointed season, that man shall bear h:14 And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the
passohe LORD; according to the ordinance of the passover,
and according to  thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have one
ordinance, both for the std for him that was born in the
land.

9:15 And on the day that the tabeared up the cloud
covered the tabernacle, namely, the tent of the tesimony: and at even
there was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearre, until
the morning.

9:16 So it was alway: the cloud covered it by he appearance
of fire by night.

9:17 And when the cloud was taken up tabernacle, then after
that the children of Israel journeyed: and in there the
cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed,
and at ment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloud
abode upon the tabhey rested in their tents.

9:19 And when the cloud tarried long upon nacle many days,
then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LOurneyed
not.

9:20 And so it was, when the cloud was a few days upon tcle;
according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tentording to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.

9:21 And so it the cloud abode from even unto the morning,
and that the cloud was takhe morning, then they journeyed:
whether it was by day or by night tha was taken up, they
journeyed.

9:22 Or whether it were two days, or aa year, that the
cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon,ren of
Israel abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it wasp, they journeyed.

9:23 At the commandment of the LORD they rested innts, and at
the commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the he LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:1 An spake unto Moses, saying, 10:2 Make thee two
trumpets of silver; of ae shalt thou make them: that thou
mayest use them for the calling of ty, and for the
journeying of the camps.

10:3 And when they shall blow, all the assembly shall
assemble themselves to thee at the door of the of the
congregation.

10:4 And if they blow but with one trumpet, thinces, which
are heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themsehee.

10:5 When ye blow an alarm, then the camps that lie on the east l go forward.

10:6 When ye blow an alarm the second time, then the caie on
the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alar journeys.

10:7 But when the congregation is to be gathered together,blow, but ye shall not sound an alarm.

10:8 And the sons of Aaron, thshall blow with the trumpets;
and they shall be to you for an ordinancthroughout your
generations.

10:9 And if ye go to war in your land agnemy that
oppresseth you, then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpetshall be remembered before the LORD your God, and ye shall be saved
fremies.

10:10 Also in the day of your gladness, and in your solemn daythe beginnings of your months, ye shall blow with the trumpets over
yoferings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings;
that they mau for a memorial before your God: I am the LORD
your God.

10:11 And iss on the twentieth day of the second month, in
the second year, that as taken up from off the tabernacle
of the testimony.

10:12 And the c Israel took their journeys out of the
wilderness of Sinai; and the cl in the wilderness of Paran.

10:13 And they first took their journey o the commandment
of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:14 In the first the standard of the camp of the children
of Judah according to theirnd over his host was Nahshon the
son of Amminadab.

10:15 And over thehe tribe of the children of Issachar was
Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

1er the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was
Eliab the son 
10:17 And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and
 Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle.

10:18 And the standard o of Reuben set forward according to
their armies: and over his host wahe son of Shedeur.

10:19 And over the host of the tribe of the childrn was
Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

10:20 And over the host of thf the children of Gad was
Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

10:21 And the Koet forward, bearing the sanctuary: and the
other did set up the tabernst they came.

10:22 And the standard of the camp of the children of Eforward according to their armies: and over his host was Elishama the
hud.

10:23 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manassehamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

10:24 And over the host of the tribe of en of Benjamin was
Abidan the son of Gideoni.

10:25 And the standard p of the children of Dan set forward,
which was the rereward of all throughout their hosts: and
over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammisha6 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was
Pagiel tOcran.

10:27 And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtara the son of Enan.

10:28 Thus were the journeyings of the children ocording to
their armies, when they set forward.

10:29 And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite,
Moses’ father in law, We are journeying unto the place of which the
LORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do thee
good: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel.

10:30 And he said unto him, I will not t I will depart to mine
own land, and to my kindred.

10:31 And he sai not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou
knowest how we are to encamp in tess, and thou mayest be to
us instead of eyes.

10:32 And it shall be, with us, yea, it shall be, that what
goodness the LORD shall do unto me will we do unto thee.

10:33 And they departed from the mount of the days’
journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went beforehe three days’ journey, to search out a resting place for them.

10: cloud of the LORD was upon them by day, when they went
out of the camAnd it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said,
Rise und let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that
hate thee flee be

10:36 And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the many
thoIsrael.

11:1 And when the people complained, it displeased the LORD: RD heard it; and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the LORD
burnt, and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts
of the camp.

11: people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto the
LORD, the firhed.

11:3 And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fiLORD burnt among them.

11:4 And the mixt multitude that was among theusting: and
the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shal us
flesh to eat?  11:5 We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypthe cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions,
and the 1:6 But now our soul is dried away: there is nothing
at all, beside thbefore our eyes.

11:7 And the manna was as coriander seed, and the coof as
the colour of bdellium.

11:8 And the people went about, and gat and ground it in
mills, or beat it in a mortar, and baked it in pans,cakes of
it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.

11:9 he dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell
upon it.

11:10s heard the people weep throughout their families,
every man in the dotent: and the anger of the LORD was
kindled greatly; Moses also was di11:11 And Moses said unto the LORD, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy
nd wherefore have I not found favour in thy sight, that thou
layest th all this people upon me?  11:12 Have I conceived
all this people? haven them, that thou shouldest say unto
me, Carry them in thy bosom, as father beareth the sucking
child, unto the land which thou swarest untthers?  11:13
Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people?weep
unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.

11:14 I am not ar all this people alone, because it is too
heavy for me.

11:15 And ideal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of
hand, if I have found hy sight; and let me not see my
wretchedness.

11:16 And the LORD saids, Gather unto me seventy men of the
elders of Israel, whom thou knowehe elders of the people,
and officers over them; and bring them unto tcle of the
congregation, that they may stand there with thee.

11:17 A come down and talk with thee there: and I will take
of the spirit whi thee, and will put it upon them; and they
shall bear the burden of thth thee, that thou bear it not
thyself alone.

11:18 And say thou untole, Sanctify yourselves against to
morrow, and ye shall eat flesh: forpt in the ears of the
LORD, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? foth us
in Egypt: therefore the LORD will give you flesh, and ye shall e.

11:19 Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neithes, nor twenty days; 11:20 But even a whole month, until it come
out atrils, and it be loathsome unto you: because that ye
have despised the h is among you, and have wept before him,
saying, Why came we forth ou?  11:21 And Moses said, The
people, among whom I am, are six hundred ootmen; and thou
hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat nth.

11:22 Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffior shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them,
to suf 11:23 And the LORD said unto Moses, Is the LORD’s
hand waxed short?lt see now whether my word shall come to
pass unto thee or not.

11:24 went out, and told the people the words of the LORD,
and gathered then of the elders of the people, and set them
round about the tabernaclend the LORD came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took
of the t was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders:
and it came to pa when the spirit rested upon them, they
prophesied, and did not cease.t there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the
one was Ethe name of the other Medad: and the spirit rested
upon them; and theyem that were written, but went not out
unto the tabernacle: and they pin the camp.

11:27 And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and saiand
Medad do prophesy in the camp.

11:28 And Joshua the son of Nun, t of Moses, one of his
young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, for11:29 And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God
tha LORD’s people were prophets, and that the LORD would put
his spirit!  11:30 And Moses gat him into the camp, he and
the elders of Israel.And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quails
from theet them fall by the camp, as it were a day’s
journey on this side, aere a day’s journey on the other
side, round about the camp, and as o cubits high upon the
face of the earth.

11:32 And the people stood t day, and all that night, and
all the next day, and they gathered the that gathered least
gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abremselves
round about the camp.

11:33 And while the flesh was yet betweeth, ere it was
chewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against thed the
LORD smote the people with a very great plague.

11:34 And he came of that place Kibrothhattaavah: because
there they buried the peopled.

11:35 And the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazerotde at Hazeroth.

12:1 And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses becausehiopian
woman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian womnd they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he
not s by us? And the LORD heard it.

12:3 (Now the man Moses was very meek, the men which were
upon the face of the earth.)  12:4 And the LORD spy unto
Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto nacle of the congregation. And they three came out.

12:5 And the LORDn in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in
the door of the tabernacle, Aaron and Miriam: and they both
came forth.

12:6 And he said, Hear nds: If there be a prophet among you,
I the LORD will make myself knownn a vision, and will speak
unto him in a dream.

12:7 My servant Moses, who is faithful in all mine house.

12:8 With him will I speak moutheven apparently, and not in
dark speeches; and the similitude of the Lhe behold:
wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my serva12:9 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he
departAnd the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold,
Miriam bes, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam,
and, behold, she was l2:11 And Aaron said unto Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, lay
noton us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we
have sinned.

12er not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed
when he comehis mother’s womb.

12:13 And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, Hea O God, I
beseech thee.

12:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, If her faut spit in her
face, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be om
the camp seven days, and after that let her be received in again.

nd Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people
journell Miriam was brought in again.

12:16 And afterward the people removeeroth, and pitched in
the wilderness of Paran.

13:1 And the LORD spakes, saying, 13:2 Send thou men, that
they may search the land of Canaa give unto the children of
Israel: of every tribe of their fathers sha a man, every one
a ruler among them.

13:3 And Moses by the commandmeLORD sent them from the
wilderness of Paran: all those men were heads dren of
Israel.

13:4 And these were their names: of the tribe of Reubthe
son of Zaccur.

13:5 Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hof the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

13:7 Of the tribe o, Igal the son of Joseph.

13:8 Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son9 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.

13:10 Of the tribn, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.

13:11 Of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of of Manasseh, Gaddi
the son of Susi.

13:12 Of the tribe of Dan, Ammielf Gemalli.

13:13 Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.

1e tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.

13:15 Of the tribe of Gthe son of Machi.

13:16 These are the names of the men which Moses sey out the
land.

And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua.

13:1es sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto
them, Get yoway southward, and go up into the mountain:
13:18 And see the land, whand the people that dwelleth
therein, whether they be strong or weak, ; 13:19 And what
the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good orwhat
cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong20 And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether
there be wn, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of
the fruit of the lae time was the time of the firstripe
grapes.

13:21 So they went up, ad the land from the wilderness of
Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamat And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where
Ahiman, Sd Talmai, the children of Anak, were. (Now Hebron
was built seven yearoan in Egypt.)  13:23 And they came unto
the brook of Eshcol, and cut thence a branch with one
cluster of grapes, and they bare it between t staff; and they
brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs.

13:24 was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of
grapes which th of Israel cut down from thence.

13:25 And they returned from searchiland after forty days.

13:26 And they went and came to Moses, and to and to all the
congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderan,
to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the
congrnd shewed them the fruit of the land.

13:27 And they told him, and sa unto the land whither thou
sentest us, and surely it floweth with mily; and this is the
fruit of it.

13:28 Nevertheless the people be stroell in the land, and
the cities are walled, and very great: and moreovhe
children of Anak there.

13:29 The Amalekites dwell in the land of and the Hittites,
and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mond the
Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan.

13:30stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go
up at once, and p for we are well able to overcome it.

13:31 But the men that went up said, We be not able to go up
against the people; for they are stronge

13:32 And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had
nto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which
we have goh it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants
thereof; and all the pee saw in it are men of a great
stature.

13:33 And there we saw the gisons of Anak, which come of the
giants: and we were in our own sight aoppers, and so we were
in their sight.

14:1 And all the congregation their voice, and cried; and
the people wept that night.

14:2 And all n of Israel murmured against Moses and against
Aaron: and the whole cosaid unto them, Would God that we
had died in the land of Egypt! or wo had died in this
wilderness!  14:3 And wherefore hath the LORD brough
land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be were it not better for us to return into Egypt?  14:4 And they
said oher, Let us make a captain, and let us return into
Egypt.

14:5 Then Maron fell on their faces before all the assembly
of the congregation odren of Israel.

14:6 And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of  which
were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes: 14:7 Ake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The
land, wssed through to search it, is an exceeding good land.

14:8 If the LORin us, then he will bring us into this land,
and give it us; a land whh with milk and honey.

14:9 Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neith the people of
the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is dom
them, and the LORD is with us: fear them not.

14:10 But all the coion bade stone them with stones. And the
glory of the LORD appeared innacle of the congregation
before all the children of Israel.

14:11 An said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke
me?  and how long re they believe me, for all the signs
which I have shewed among them? ll smite them with the
pestilence, and disinherit them, and will make reater
nation and mightier than they.

14:13 And Moses said unto the Lhe Egyptians shall hear it,
(for thou broughtest up this people in thy among them;)
14:14 And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this ley
have heard that thou LORD art among this people, that thou LORD art to face, and that thy cloud standeth over them, and that
thou goest b by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in a
pillar of fire by night. if thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then the
nations whichd the fame of thee will speak, saying, 14:16
Because the LORD was not ing this people into the land which
he sware unto them, therefore he hem in the wilderness.

14:17 And now, I beseech thee, let the power of great,
according as thou hast spoken, saying, 14:18 The LORD is
longsand of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and
transgression, and by no mearing the guilty, visiting the
iniquity of the fathers upon the childr third and fourth
generation.

14:19 Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniqu people according
unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast fo
people, from Egypt even until now.

14:20 And the LORD said, I have pording to thy word: 14:21
But as truly as I live, all the earth shall ith the glory
of the LORD.

14:22 Because all those men which have see, and my miracles,
which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have now
these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice; 14:23 Surell not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall
anyhat provoked me see it: 14:24 But my servant Caleb,
because he had ano with him, and hath followed me fully,
him will I bring into the land he went; and his seed shall
possess it.

14:25 (Now the Amalekites andnites dwelt in the valley.)
Tomorrow turn you, and get you into the wiy the way of the
Red sea.

14:26 And the LORD spake unto Moses and untying, 14:27 How
long shall I bear with this evil congregation, which mnst
me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which tagainst me.

14:28 Say unto them, As truly as I live, saith the LORD, ve
spoken in mine ears, so will I do to you: 14:29 Your carcases shallhis wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, according
to your w, from twenty years old and upward which have
murmured against me.

14ss ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I
sware to make yerein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and
Joshua the son of Nun.

14ur little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them will
I bring in, all know the land which ye have despised.

14:32 But as for you, your hey shall fall in this
wilderness.

14:33 And your children shall wandwilderness forty years,
and bear your whoredoms, until your carcases bn the
wilderness.

14:34 After the number of the days in which ye searand, even
forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquitirty years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.

14:35 I the LORD h will surely do it unto all this evil
congregation, that are gathered against me: in this
wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they e.

14:36 And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returne all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up a
slander land, 14:37 Even those men that did bring up the evil
report upon thedied by the plague before the LORD.

14:38 But Joshua the son of Nun, the son of Jephunneh, which
were of the men that went to search the latill.

14:39 And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Isrhe people mourned greatly.

14:40 And they rose up early in the morninthem up into the
top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we be here, and will the
place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.

14:41 Anid, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment
of the LORD? but itprosper.

14:42 Go not up, for the LORD is not among you; that ye be n
before your enemies.

14:43 For the Amalekites and the Canaanites arefore you, and
ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away fD,
therefore the LORD will not be with you.

14:44 But they presumed tto the hill top: nevertheless the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, andparted not out of the
camp.

14:45 Then the Amalekites came down, and ites which dwelt in
that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, ermah.

15:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 15:2 Speak unto thef Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land
of your habwhich I give unto you, 15:3 And will make an
offering by fire unto theburnt offering, or a sacrifice in
performing a vow, or in a freewill or in your solemn feasts,
to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the f the flock:
15:4 Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LOmeat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of oil.

15:5 And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.

15:6 Or thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth
deals of flour mingle third part of an hin of oil.

15:7 And for a drink offering thou shal third part of an
hin of wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:8thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a
sacrifice in pa vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD: 15:9
Then shall he bring withk a meat offering of three tenth
deals of flour mingled with half an h

15:10 And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine,fering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:11 Thus shalne for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a
lamb, or a kid.

15:12 Ac the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to
every one accordir number.

15:13 All that are born of the country shall do these thingis manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour
unt

15:14 And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you nerations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet
savour ORD; as ye do, so he shall do.

15:15 One ordinance shall be both for  congregation, and
also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever
in your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the
LORD.

15:16 One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger
that sojourneth with you.

15:17 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 15:18 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land
whither I bring you, 15:19 Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the
bread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.

15:20 Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave
offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall
ye heave it.

15:21 Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave
offering in your generations.

15:22 And if ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments,
which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses, 15:23 Even all that the LORD
hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD
commanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations; 15:24 Then
it shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the knowledge
of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young
bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LD, with
his meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the maone kid of the goats for a sin offering.

15:25 And the priest shall mnement for all the congregation
of the children of Israel, and it shalven them; for it is
ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a made by
fire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, foorance: 15:26 And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the
chisrael, and the stranger that sojourneth among them;
seeing all the peon ignorance.

15:27 And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he sha she
goat of the first year for a sin offering.

15:28 And the priest an atonement for the soul that sinneth
ignorantly, when he sinneth by before the LORD, to make an
atonement for him; and it shall be forgive29 Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance,
both that is born among the children of Israel, and for the
stranger that smong them.

15:30 But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whethern
in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that be cut off from among his people.

15:31 Because he hath despised thee LORD, and hath broken
his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cuiniquity
shall be upon him.

15:32 And while the children of Israel wewilderness, they
found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath daynd they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses
and Aaro all the congregation.

15:34 And they put him in ward, because it wared what
should be done to him.

15:35 And the LORD said unto Moses, Tll be surely put to
death: all the congregation shall stone him with shout the
camp.

15:36 And all the congregation brought him without the
stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses.

15the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 15:38 Speak unto the
children of Isid them that they make them fringes in the
borders of their garments ttheir generations, and that they
put upon the fringe of the borders a  blue: 15:39 And it
shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look uand remember
all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that y
after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go a
wh40 That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, and
be holy unto 
15:41 I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of
Egyour God: I am the LORD your God.

16:1 Now Korah, the son of Izhar, tohath, the son of Levi,
and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and n of Peleth,
sons of Reuben, took men: 16:2 And they rose up before Mocertain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of
th, famous in the congregation, men of renown: 16:3 And they
gathered thogether against Moses and against Aaron, and said
unto them, Ye take ton you, seeing all the congregation are
holy, every one of them, and t among them: wherefore then
lift ye up yourselves above the congregatiLORD?  16:4 And
when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face: 16:5 And hnto
Korah and unto all his company, saying, Even to morrow the LORD wio are his, and who is holy; and will cause him to come near
unto him: hom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto
him.

16:6 This do;censers, Korah, and all his company; 16:7 And
put fire therein, and puin them before the LORD to morrow:
and it shall be that the man whom tdoth choose, he shall be
holy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of LAnd Moses said unto Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi:
16:9 Seet a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel
hath separated you frregation of Israel, to bring you near
to himself to do the service of acle of the LORD, and to
stand before the congregation to minister unt16:10 And he
hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the si
with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?  16:11 For which cause
bnd all thy company are gathered together against the LORD:
and what isat ye murmur against him?  16:12 And Moses sent
to call Dathan and Abions of Eliab: which said, We will not
come up: 16:13 Is it a small thi thou hast brought us up out of
a land that floweth with milk and honeill us in the wilderness,
except thou make thyself altogether a prince 16:14 Moreover
thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with honey,
or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou puteyes of these men? we will not come up.

16:15 And Moses was very wrotd unto the LORD, Respect not
thou their offering: I have not taken onethem, neither have
I hurt one of them.

16:16 And Moses said unto Kora and all thy company before
the LORD, thou, and they, and Aaron, to mo:17 And take every
man his censer, and put incense in them, and bring the LORD
every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou alson, each of you his censer.

16:18 And they took every man his censer,re in them, and
laid incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tab the
congregation with Moses and Aaron.

16:19 And Korah gathered all gation against them unto the
door of the tabernacle of the congregatioglory of the LORD
appeared unto all the congregation.

16:20 And the Lunto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 16:21
Separate yourselves from amongregation, that I may consume
them in a moment.

16:22 And they fell uces, and said, O God, the God of the
spirits of all flesh, shall one mnd wilt thou be wroth with
all the congregation?  16:23 And the LORD s Moses, saying,
16:24 Speak unto the congregation, saying, Get you up ut the
tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.

16:25 And Moses rose t unto Dathan and Abiram; and the
elders of Israel followed him.

16:2spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you,
from the tent wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest
ye be consumed in all t

16:27 So they gat up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiraery side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the door
of the and their wives, and their sons, and their little
children.

16:28 Anaid, Hereby ye shall know that the LORD hath sent me
to do all these w I have not done them of mine own mind.

16:29 If these men die the coh of all men, or if they be
visited after the visitation of all men; tRD hath not sent
me.

16:30 But if the LORD make a new thing, and the n her mouth,
and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, a
down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men havethe LORD.

16:31 And it came to pass, as he had made an end of speakin
words, that the ground clave asunder that was under them: 16:32 And
topened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses,
and all theppertained unto Korah, and all their goods.

16:33 They, and all that  to them, went down alive into the
pit, and the earth closed upon them perished from among the
congregation.

16:34 And all Israel that wereut them fled at the cry of
them: for they said, Lest the earth swallow.

16:35 And there came out a fire from the LORD, and consumed the twod fifty men that offered incense.

16:36 And the LORD spake unto Moses16:37 Speak unto Eleazar
the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up rs out of the
burning, and scatter thou the fire yonder; for they are 

16:38 The censers of these sinners against their own souls, let them broad plates for a covering of the altar: for they offered
them befor, therefore they are hallowed: and they shall be a
sign unto the childrael.

16:39 And Eleazar the priest took the brasen censers, wherewith were burnt had offered; and they were made broad plates for a
coverinltar: 16:40 To be a memorial unto the children of
Israel, that no strach is not of the seed of Aaron, come near
to offer incense before the  he be not as Korah, and as his
company: as the LORD said to him by th Moses.

16:41 But on the morrow all the congregation of the children murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the
pthe LORD.

16:42 And it came to pass, when the congregation was gather
Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of thon: and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of the
LORD appea3 And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of the
congregation.
e LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 16:45 Get you up from
among this congation, that I may consume them as in a moment. And
they fell upon thei16:46 And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a censer, and put fire therein
fthe altar, and put on incense, and go quickly unto the
congregation, a atonement for them: for there is wrath gone
out from the LORD; the plgun.

16:47 And Aaron took as Moses commanded, and ran into the midst regation; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: and
he pnse, and made an atonement for the people.

16:48 And he stood betweenand the living; and the plague was
stayed.

16:49 Now they that died ie were fourteen thousand and
seven hundred, beside them that died abouer of Korah.

16:50 And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of thee of
the congregation: and the plague was stayed.

17:1 And the LORD s Moses, saying, 17:2 Speak unto the
children of Israel, and take of evof them a rod according to
the house of their fathers, of all their prding to the
house of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every manon
his rod.

17:3 And thou shalt write Aaron’s name upon the rod of one
rod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers.

17:4 And lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation
before the testimonwill meet with you.

17:5 And it shall come to pass, that the man’s I shall
choose, shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the muof the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you.

17:6 And e unto the children of Israel, and every one of
their princes gave himiece, for each prince one, according to
their fathers’ houses, even ds: and the rod of Aaron was
among their rods.

17:7 And Moses laid up before the LORD in the tabernacle of
witness.

17:8 And it came to paon the morrow Moses went into the
tabernacle of witness; and, behold, Aaron for the house of
Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and blsoms, and
yielded almonds.

17:9 And Moses brought out all the rods fr the LORD unto all
the children of Israel: and they looked, and took e rod.

17:10 And the LORD said unto Moses, Bring Aaron’s rod again btestimony, to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shalt
qaway their murmurings from me, that they die not.

17:11 And Moses didhe LORD commanded him, so did he.

17:12 And the children of Israel sposes, saying, Behold, we
die, we perish, we all perish.

17:13 Whosoevny thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD
shall die: shall we be cth dying?  18:1 And the LORD said
unto Aaron, Thou and thy sons and ths house with thee shall
bear the iniquity of the sanctuary: and thou as with thee
shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.

18:2 And thy  also of the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy
father, bring thou with t they may be joined unto thee, and
minister unto thee: but thou and thh thee shall minister
before the tabernacle of witness.

18:3 And theyp thy charge, and the charge of all the
tabernacle: only they shall noh the vessels of the sanctuary
and the altar, that neither they, nor y.

18:4 And they shall be joined unto thee, and keep the charge of the of the congregation, for all the service of the tabernacle:
and a str not come nigh unto you.

18:5 And ye shall keep the charge of the sand the charge of
the altar: that there be no wrath any more upon the chIsrael.

18:6 And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites fre children of Israel: to you they are given as a gift for the LORD,
torvice of the tabernacle of the congregation.

18:7 Therefore thou and ith thee shall keep your priest’s
office for everything of the altarin the vail; and ye shall
serve: I have given your priest’s office ua service of
gift: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to d8 And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Behold, I also have given thee the
chne heave offerings of all the hallowed things of the
children of Israethee have I given them by reason of the
anointing, and to thy sons, bynce for ever.

18:9 This shall be thine of the most holy things, resere: every oblation of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, and
every g of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs
which they shall re, shall be most holy for thee and for
thy sons.

18:10 In the most holthou eat it; every male shall eat
it: it shall be holy unto thee.

18:s is thine; the heave offering of their gift, with all
the wave offeri children of Israel: I have given them unto
thee, and to thy sons and hters with thee, by a statute for
ever: every one that is clean in thyhall eat of it.

18:12 All the best of the oil, and all the best of thd of
the wheat, the firstfruits of them which they shall offer unto thm have I given thee.

18:13 And whatsoever is first ripe in the land,  shall bring
unto the LORD, shall be thine; every one that is clean ine
shall eat of it.

18:14 Every thing devoted in Israel shall be thineery thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which they
bring unto whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine:
nevertheless the firstn shalt thou surely redeem, and the
firstling of unclean beasts shalt em.

18:16 And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt th according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels,
after t of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs.

18:17 But the firstling ofthe firstling of a sheep, or the
firstling of a goat, thou shalt not ry are holy: thou shalt
sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt fat for an
offering made by fire, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

1he flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave breast and as
the right se thine.

18:19 All the heave offerings of the holy things, which the  Israel offer unto the LORD, have I given thee, and thy sons and thy
dith thee, by a statute for ever: it is a covenant of salt
for ever befD unto thee and to thy seed with thee.

18:20 And the LORD spake unto shalt have no inheritance in
their land, neither shalt thou have any phem: I am thy part
and thine inheritance among the children of Israel.d, behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth in
Israel fritance, for their service which they serve, even
the service of the tof the congregation.

18:22 Neither must the children of Israel hencefigh the
tabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin, and die.

t the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of the
congregatiey shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a
statute for ever throughourations, that among the children
of Israel they have no inheritance.

the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as an
heave off the LORD, I have given to the Levites to inherit:
therefore I have saem, Among the children of Israel they
shall have no inheritance.

18:2LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 18:26 Thus speak unto the
Levites, and hem, When ye take of the children of Israel the
tithes which I have giom them for your inheritance, then ye
shall offer up an heave offeringthe LORD, even a tenth part
of the tithe.

18:27 And this your heave oall be reckoned unto you, as
though it were the corn of the threshingfas the fulness of
the winepress.

18:28 Thus ye also shall offer an heing unto the LORD of all
your tithes, which ye receive of the children of Israel; and ye shall
give thereof the LORD’s heave offering to Aaron the priest.

18:29 Out of all your gifts ye shall offer every heave offering of the
LORD, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out of
it.

18:30 Therefore thou shalt say unto them, When ye have heaved the best
thereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as the
increase of the threshingfloor, and as the increasthe winepress.

18:31 And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your : for
it is your reward for your service in the tabernacle of the
cong
18:32 And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, when ye have heaved
fest of it: neither shall ye pollute the holy things of
the children ofye die.

19:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, 19the ordinance of the law which the LORD hath commanded, saying,
Speak hildren of Israel, that they bring thee a red heifer
without spot, whe blemish, and upon which never came yoke:
19:3 And ye shall give her uazar the priest, that he may bring
her forth without the camp, and one before his face:
19:4 And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood r,
and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the
conseven times: 19:5 And one shall burn the heifer in his
sight; her skinlesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he
burn: 19:6 And the prieste cedar wood, and hyssop, and
scarlet, and cast it into the midst of tof the heifer.

19:7 Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shhis
flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and theall be unclean until the even.

19:8 And he that burneth her shall wases in water, and
bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until 19:9 And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer,
m up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall be
kept for the cn of the children of Israel for a water of
separation: it is a purificin.

19:10 And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash hi and be unclean until the even: and it shall be unto the
children of Iunto the stranger that sojourneth among them,
for a statute for ever.
that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven
days.

1all purify himself with it on the third day, and on the
seventh day helean: but if he purify not himself the third
day, then the seventh dayot be clean.

19:13 Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that i
purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the LORD; and that
be cut off from Israel: because the water of separation was
not sprinkim, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet
upon him.

19:14 This , when a man dieth in a tent: all that come into
the tent, and all thae tent, shall be unclean seven days.

19:15 And every open vessel, whicovering bound upon it, is
unclean.

19:16 And whosoever toucheth one in with a sword in the
open fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a mane, shall be
unclean seven days.

19:17 And for an unclean person they  of the ashes of the
burnt heifer of purification for sin, and runningl be put
thereto in a vessel: 19:18 And a clean person shall take hyssp it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the
vesupon the persons that were there, and upon him that
touched a bone, or or one dead, or a grave: 19:19 And the
clean person shall sprinkle upean on the third day, and on
the seventh day: and on the seventh day hify himself, and
wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and sha at
even.

19:20 But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purithat soul shall be cut off from among the congregation, because he
hatthe sanctuary of the LORD: the water of separation hath
not been sprinhim; he is unclean.

19:21 And it shall be a perpetual statute unto the that
sprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his clothes; and at
toucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until even.

19:2soever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean; and
the soul thatit shall be unclean until even.

20:1 Then came the children of Israel whole congregation,
into the desert of Zin in the first month: and thode in
Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.

20:2 And no water for the congregation: and they gathered
themselves together ases and against Aaron.

20:3 And the people chode with Moses, and spak Would God
that we had died when our brethren died before the LORD!  2
have ye brought up the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness,d our cattle should die there?  20:5 And wherefore have ye
made us to  of Egypt, to bring us in unto this evil place?
it is no place of seedigs, or of vines, or of pomegranates;
neither is there any water to dr And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto
the dtabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon
their faces: and th the LORD appeared unto them.

20:7 And the LORD spake unto Moses, sayTake the rod, and
gather thou the assembly together, thou, and Aaron t and
speak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: so
thou sha congregation and their beasts drink.

20:9 And Moses took the rod frothe LORD, as he commanded him.

20:10 And Moses and Aaron gathered thegether before
the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now, ye rebels; much
you water out of this rock?  20:11 And Moses lifted up his hand, an rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came out
abundantly, and tation drank, and their beasts also.

20:12 And the LORD spake unto Mosn, Because ye believed me
not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the childl, therefore
ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which .

20:13 This is the water of Meribah; because the children of Israel
h the LORD, and he was sanctified in them.

20:14 And Moses sent messe Kadesh unto the king of Edom,
Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knoe travail that hath
befallen us: 20:15 How our fathers went down into we have
dwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians vexed us, and ou 20:16 And when we cried unto the LORD, he heard our voice,
and sent ad hath brought us forth out of Egypt: and,
behold, we are in Kadesh, ae uttermost of thy border: 20:17
Let us pass, I pray thee, through thywe will not pass
through the fields, or through the vineyards, neitherrink of
the water of the wells: we will go by the king’s high way, w
turn to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed thy
bord And Edom said unto him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest I come
out agwith the sword.

20:19 And the children of Israel said unto him, We wihe high
way: and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pawill only, without doing anything else, go through on my feet.

20:20 d, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came out
against him with much  with a strong hand.

20:21 Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage tborder:
wherefore Israel turned away from him.

20:22 And the children even the whole congregation,
journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mou0:23 And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the
coasand of Edom, saying, 20:24 Aaron shall be gathered unto
his people: fol not enter into the land which I have given
unto the children of Israe ye rebelled against my word at
the water of Meribah.

20:25 Take Aarazar his son, and bring them up unto mount
Hor: 20:26 And strip Aaron ments, and put them upon Eleazar
his son: and Aaron shall be gathered eople, and shall die
there.

20:27 And Moses did as the LORD commanded went up into mount
Hor in the sight of all the congregation.

20:28 Atripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon
Eleazar his son; and there in the top of the mount: and
Moses and Eleazar came down from th20:29 And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they
mouron thirty days, even all the house of Israel.

21:1 And when king Aradnite, which dwelt in the south, heard
tell that Israel came by the wayes; then he fought against
Israel, and took some of them prisoners.

2ael vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou wilt
indeed deliver t into my hand, then I will utterly destroy
their cities.

21:3 And thekened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up
the Canaanites; and they destroyed them and their cities: and
he called the name of the place1:4 And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to
coland of Edom: and the soul of the people was much
discouraged because 

21:5 And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore
ught us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for there
is no breais there any water; and our soul loatheth this
light bread.

21:6 And ent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit
the people; and muchsrael died.

21:7 Therefore the people came to Moses, and said, We havfor
we have spoken against the LORD, and against thee; pray unto the Le take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the
people.

21 LORD said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set
it upon a po shall come to pass, that every one that is
bitten, when he looketh upl live.

21:9 And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a polame to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the
 brass, he lived.

21:10 And the children of Israel set forward, and poth.

21:11 And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, is which is before Moab, toward the sunrising.

21:12 From thence they and pitched in the valley of Zared.

21:13 From thence they removed, a on the other side of
Arnon, which is in the wilderness that cometh ouasts of the
Amorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab anites.

21:14 Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD,id in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon, 21:15 And at the
streamoks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth
upon the border o1:16 And from thence they went to Beer: that is the well whereof the
Lunto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give
them water.

2srael sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it:
21:18 The prged the well, the nobles of the people digged it,
by the direction of r, with their staves. And from the
wilderness they went to Mattanah: 2rom Mattanah to Nahaliel:
and from Nahaliel to Bamoth: 21:20 And from the valley, that
is in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, whictoward
Jeshimon.

21:21 And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of s,
saying, 21:22 Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn into t or into the vineyards; we will not drink of the waters of the
well: bo along by the king’s high way, until we be past
thy borders.

21:23 would not suffer Israel to pass through his border:
but Sihon gathereeople together, and went out against
Israel into the wilderness: and hahaz, and fought against
Israel.

21:24 And Israel smote him with the e sword, and possessed
his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the  Ammon: for
the border of the children of Ammon was strong.

21:25 Andk all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all the
cities of the Amorites, and in all the villages thereof.

21:26 For Heshbon was the city of  king of the Amorites, who
had fought against the former king of Moab,all his land out
of his hand, even unto Arnon.

21:27 Wherefore they tin proverbs say, Come into Heshbon,
let the city of Sihon be built and21:28 For there is a fire
gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city oit hath consumed
Ar of Moab, and the lords of the high places of Arnone to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh: he hath
given hat escaped, and his daughters, into captivity unto
Sihon king of the A21:30 We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon, and
wd them waste even unto Nophah, which reacheth unto Medeba.

21:31 Thuselt in the land of the Amorites.

21:32 And Moses sent to spy out Jaazhey took the villages
thereof, and drove out the Amorites that were th3 And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the
king ofnt out against them, he, and all his people, to the
battle at Edrei.

the LORD said unto Moses, Fear him not: for I have delivered
him into nd all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do
to him as thou didson king of the Amorites, which dwelt at
Heshbon.

21:35 So they smote is sons, and all his people, until there
was none left him alive: and ssessed his land.

22:1 And the children of Israel set forward, and pihe plains
of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.

22:2 And Balak the ppor saw all that Israel had done to the
Amorites.

22:3 And Moab was id of the people, because they were many:
and Moab was distressed beca children of Israel.

22:4 And Moab said unto the elders of Midian, Nos company
lick up all that are round about us, as the ox licketh up ththe field.

And Balak the son of Zippor was king of the Moabites at th22:5 He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor to
Pethoby the river of the land of the children of his
people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from
Egypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they abide over
against me: 22:6 Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this
people; for they are too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail,
that we may smite them, and that I may drive them out of the land: for
I wot that he whom thou bless is blessed, and he whom thou cursest
is cursed.

22:7 And the elders d the elders of Midian departed with the
rewards of divination in thei they came unto Balaam, and
spake unto him the words of Balak.

22:8 A unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring
you word again, asD shall speak unto me: and the princes of
Moab abode with Balaam.

22:came unto Balaam, and said, What men are these with thee?
22:10 And Baunto God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab,
hath sent unto me, sa Behold, there is a people come out of
Egypt, which covereth the face h: come now, curse me them;
peradventure I shall be able to overcome trive them out.

22:12 And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with
shalt not curse the people: for they are blessed.

22:13 And Balaam rhe morning, and said unto the princes of
Balak, Get you into your land LORD refuseth to give me leave
to go with you.

22:14 And the princesose up, and they went unto Balak, and
said, Balaam refuseth to come wi15 And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honourable than
th And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus saith Balak the
son oft nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto
me: 22:17 For I we thee unto very great honour, and I will
do whatsoever thou sayest une therefore, I pray thee, curse
me this people.

22:18 And Balaam answaid unto the servants of Balak, If
Balak would give me his house full nd gold, I cannot go
beyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or2:19 Now therefore, I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that I
hat the LORD will say unto me more.

22:20 And God came unto Balaam atd said unto him, If the men
come to call thee, rise up, and go with tht the word which I
shall say unto thee, that shalt thou do.

22:21 Ande up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went
with the princes of:22 And God’s anger was kindled because he went: and the angel of
thd in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was
riding upon his is two servants were with him.

22:23 And the ass saw the angel of theding in the way, and
his sword drawn in his hand: and the ass turned at of the way,
and went into the field: and Balaam smote the ass, to tuo
the way.

22:24 But the angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vinwall being on this side, and a wall on that side.

22:25 And when the e angel of the LORD, she thrust herself
unto the wall, and crushed Balot against the wall: and he
smote her again.

22:26 And the angel of tt further, and stood in a narrow
place, where was no way to turn eitheight hand or to the
left.

22:27 And when the ass saw the angel of thefell down under
Balaam: and Balaam’s anger was kindled, and he smoteth a
staff.

22:28 And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she salaam, What have I done unto thee, that thou hast smitten me these
thr 22:29 And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hast
mocked me: I woere a sword in mine hand, for now would I
kill thee.

22:30 And the aso Balaam, Am not I thine ass, upon which
thou hast ridden ever since I was thine unto this day? was I ever wont
to do so unto thee? And he said, Nay.

22:31 Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of
the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and he
bowed down his head, and fell flat on his face.

22:32 And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Wherefore hast thou
smitten thine ass these three times? behold, I went out to withstand
thee, becauses perverse before me: 22:33 And the ass saw me,
and turned from me thetimes: unless she had turned from me,
surely now also I had slain theed her alive.

22:34 And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I haver I
knew not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore, please thee, I will get me back again.

22:35 And the angel of the LORo Balaam, Go with the men: but
only the word that I shall speak unto tthou shalt speak. So
Balaam went with the princes of Balak.

22:36 Andk heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meet
him unto a city of Mh is in the border of Arnon, which is in
the utmost coast.

22:37 And  unto Balaam, Did I not earnestly send unto thee
to call thee? wherefothou not unto me? am I not able indeed
to promote thee to honour?  22:am said unto Balak, Lo, I am
come unto thee: have I now any power at ahing? the word
that God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speak.

22:3am went with Balak, and they came unto Kirjathhuzoth.

22:40 And Balakxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the
princes that were with h And it came to pass on the morrow, that Balak took Balaam, and
broughinto the high places of Baal, that thence he might see
the utmost partople.

23:1 And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, ane here seven oxen and seven rams.

23:2 And Balak did as Balaam had spBalak and Balaam offered
on every altar a bullock and a ram.

23:3 Andd unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and I
will go: peradventurewill come to meet me: and whatsoever he
sheweth me I will tell thee. A to an high place.

23:4 And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I hed seven
altars, and I have offered upon every altar a bullock and a rnd the LORD put a word in Balaam’s mouth, and said, Return unto
Balaus thou shalt speak.

23:6 And he returned unto him, and, lo, he stoodrnt
sacrifice, he, and all the princes of Moab.

23:7 And he took up he, and said, Balak the king of Moab hath
brought me from Aram, out of ns of the east, saying, Come,
curse me Jacob, and come, defy Israel.

hall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? or how shall I defy,
whom the not defied?  23:9 For from the top of the rocks I
see him, and from thbehold him: lo, the people shall dwell
alone, and shall not be reckonehe nations.

23:10 Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of th
part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my llike his!  23:11 And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou
done unto  thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou
hast blessed them altog3:12 And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that
whichath put in my mouth?  23:13 And Balak said unto him,
Come, I pray the unto another place, from whence thou mayest
see them: thou shalt see most part of them, and shalt not
see them all: and curse me them from 3:14 And he brought him into the field of Zophim, to the top of
Pisgaht seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on
every altar.

23:15id unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt offering, while
I meet the LORD
23:16 And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said,unto Balak, and say thus.

23:17 And when he came to him, behold, he ss burnt offering,
and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said untt hath
the LORD spoken?  23:18 And he took up his parable, and said, Rak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor: 23:19 God is not
a he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should
repent: hath he hall he not do it? or hath he spoken, and
shall he not make it good?  d, I have received commandment
to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cae it.

23:21 He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seeness in Israel: the LORD his God is with him, and the shout of
a king hem.

23:22 God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the streunicorn.

23:23 Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither any divination against Israel: according to this time it shall be saidnd of Israel, What hath God wrought!  23:24 Behold, the
people shall ra great lion, and lift up himself as a young
lion: he shall not lie do eat of the prey, and drink the
blood of the slain.

23:25 And Balak salaam, Neither curse them at all, nor bless
them at all.

23:26 But Bared and said unto Balak, Told not I thee,
saying, All that the LORD spat I must do?  23:27 And Balak
said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I  thee unto another
place; peradventure it will please God that thou mame them
from thence.

23:28 And Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Pooketh
toward Jeshimon.

23:29 And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me heltars, and
prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.

23:30 And Bas Balaam had said, and offered a bullock and a
ram on every altar.

2en Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he
went not, a times, to seek for enchantments, but he set his
face toward the wilde:2 And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel abiding in his
tening to their tribes; and the spirit of God came upon him.

24:3 And heble, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath
said, and the man whose eye hath said: 24:4 He hath said,
which heard the words of God, which sawon of the Almighty,
falling into a trance, but having his eyes open: 2oodly are
thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel!  24:6 As s are they spread forth, as gardens by the river’s side, as the
treeloes which the LORD hath planted, and as cedar trees
beside the watersHe shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed shall be
in ms, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his
kingdom shall be ex:8 God brought him forth out of Egypt; he hath as it were the
strengthorn: he shall eat up the nations his enemies, and
shall break their boerce them through with his arrows.

24:9 He couched, he lay down as a  as a great lion: who shall
stir him up? Blessed is he that blesseth tursed is he that
curseth thee.

24:10 And Balak’s anger was kindled Balaam, and he smote his
hands together: and Balak said unto Balaam, Iee to curse
mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed thhree times.

24:11 Therefore now flee thou to thy place: I thought to ee
unto great honour; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honound Balaam said unto Balak, Spake I not also to thy messengers
which thunto me, saying, 24:13 If Balak would give me his
house full of silver I cannot go beyond the commandment of
the LORD, to do either good or e own mind; but what the LORD
saith, that will I speak?  24:14 And nowI go unto my people:
come therefore, and I will advertise thee what thall do to
thy people in the latter days.

24:15 And he took up his parsaid, Balaam the son of Beor
hath said, and the man whose eyes are oped: 24:16 He hath
said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowhe most
High, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a traaving his eyes open: 24:17 I shall see him, but not now: I shall
beholnot nigh: there shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a
Sceptre shall riIsrael, and shall smite the corners of Moab,
and destroy all the childth.

24:18 And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possess enemies; and Israel shall do valiantly.

24:19 Out of Jacob shall coshall have dominion, and shall
destroy him that remaineth of the city.d when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable, and said,
Amalek wst of the nations; but his latter end shall be that
he perish for everd he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said,
Strong llingplace, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock.

24:22 Nevertheless tshall be wasted, until Asshur shall
carry thee away captive.

24:23 An up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live when
God doeth this!  ships shall come from the coast of Chittim,
and shall afflict Asshur, flict Eber, and he also shall
perish for ever.

24:25 And Balaam rose t and returned to his place: and
Balak also went his way.

25:1 And Ise in Shittim, and the people began to commit
whoredom with the daughte

25:2 And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods: ale did eat, and bowed down to their gods.

25:3 And Israel joined himsalpeor: and the anger of the
LORD was kindled against Israel.

25:4 An said unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people,
and hang them up bORD against the sun, that the fierce
anger of the LORD may be turned arael.

25:5 And Moses said unto the judges of Israel, Slay ye every onhat were joined unto Baalpeor.

25:6 And, behold, one of the children came and brought unto
his brethren a Midianitish woman in the sight ofd in the
sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who ng before the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

25:7 And wh, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the
priest, saw it, he rose up the congregation, and took a
javelin in his hand; 25:8 And he went aftof Israel into the
tent, and thrust both of them through, the man of Ithe
woman through her belly. So the plague was stayed from the childre.

25:9 And those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousanAnd the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 25:11 Phinehas, the son
of Eleaf Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away
from the children of Isrle he was zealous for my sake among
them, that I consumed not the chilael in my jealousy.

25:12 Wherefore say, Behold, I give unto him my c peace:
25:13 And he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the cof an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, and
onement for the children of Israel.

25:14 Now the name of the Israeliwas slain, even that was
slain with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri,  Salu, a prince
of a chief house among the Simeonites.

25:15 And the e Midianitish woman that was slain was Cozbi,
the daughter of Zur; he over a people, and of a chief house
in Midian.

25:16 And the LORD spases, saying, 25:17 Vex the Midianites,
and smite them: 25:18 For they h their wiles, wherewith
they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor,e matter of
Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, wslain in the day of the plague for Peor’s sake.

26:1 And it came to the plague, that the LORD spake unto
Moses and unto Eleazar the son o priest, saying, 26:2 Take
the sum of all the congregation of the chilrael, from twenty
years old and upward, throughout their fathers’ hothat are
able to go to war in Israel.

26:3 And Moses and Eleazar the ke with them in the plains of
Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying, 26:sum of the people,
from twenty years old and upward; as the LORD commaand the
children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt.uben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben; Hanoch,
of whoe family of the Hanochites: of Pallu, the family of
the Palluites: 26:on, the family of the Hezronites: of Carmi,
the family of the Carmitesese are the families of the Reubenites: and they that were
numbered of forty and three thousand and seven hundred and
thirty.

26:8 And the llu; Eliab.

26:9 And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abira
that Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, who
stst Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when
they strove ae LORD: 26:10 And the earth opened her mouth,
and swallowed them up toh Korah, when that company died,
what time the fire devoured two hundrty men: and they became
a sign.

26:11 Notwithstanding the children ofed not.

26:12 The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the the Nemuelites: of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites: of Jachin,
the the Jachinites: 26:13 Of Zerah, the family of the
Zarhites: of Shaul, of the Shaulites.

26:14 These are the families of the Simeonites, twwo
thousand and two hundred.

26:15 The children of Gad after their faZephon, the family
of the Zephonites: of Haggi, the family of the Hagghuni, the
family of the Shunites: 26:16 Of Ozni, the family of the OznEri, the family of the Erites: 26:17 Of Arod, the family of the
Aroditli, the family of the Arelites.

26:18 These are the families of the c Gad according to those
that were numbered of them, forty thousand anddred.

26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan: and Er and Onan died d of Canaan.

26:20 And the sons of Judah after their families were; othe
family of the Shelanites: of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites: the family of the Zarhites.

26:21 And the sons of Pharez were; of Hezamily of the
Hezronites: of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.

26:22e the families of Judah according to those that were
numbered of them,e and sixteen thousand and five hundred.

26:23 Of the sons of Issacha families: of Tola, the
family of the Tolaites: of Pua, the family of s: 26:24 Of
Jashub, the family of the Jashubites: of Shimron, the famiShimronites.

26:25 These are the families of Issachar according to there
numbered of them, threescore and four thousand and three hundred.
 the sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the
family of the of Elon, the family of the Elonites: of
Jahleel, the family of the Ja

26:27 These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those
tnumbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.

26:28 The sonh after their families were Manasseh and
Ephraim.

26:29 Of the sons oh: of Machir, the family of the
Machirites: and Machir begat Gilead: oe the family of the
Gileadites.

26:30 These are the sons of Gilead: oe family of the
Jeezerites: of Helek, the family of the Helekites: 26:Asriel, the family of the Asrielites: and of Shechem, the family of
thes: 26:32 And of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites:
and of Hepherly of the Hepherites.

26:33 And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sdaughters: and
the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, aoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.

26:34 These are the families of Manasseh, that were numbered
of them, fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.
ese are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of
Shuthelah, the fae Shuthalhites: of Becher, the family of
the Bachrites: of Tahan, the the Tahanites.

26:36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, thf the
Eranites.

26:37 These are the families of the sons of Ephraim ao those
that were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hse are the sons of Joseph after their families.

26:38 The sons of Benr their families: of Bela, the family
of the Belaites: of Ashbel, the he Ashbelites: of Ahiram,
the family of the Ahiramites: 26:39 Of Shuphmily of the
Shuphamites: of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.

26:e sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the family of
the Ardites:man, the family of the Naamites.

26:41 These are the sons of Benjaminir families: and they
that were numbered of them were forty and five td six
hundred.

26:42 These are the sons of Dan after their families: the
family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after thei.

26:43 All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that wed of them, were threescore and four thousand and four hundred.

26:44ldren of Asher after their families: of Jimna, the
family of the Jimnisui, the family of the Jesuites: of
Beriah, the family of the Beriites Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites: of
Malcfamily of the Malchielites.

26:46 And the name of the daughter of Ashah.

26:47 These are the families of the sons of Asher according to thre numbered of them; who were fifty and three thousand and four
hundreOf the sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the
family oeelites: of Guni, the family of the Gunites: 26:49
Of Jezer, the familzerites: of Shillem, the family of the
Shillemites.

26:50 These are ts of Naphtali according to their families:
and they that were numberedere forty and five thousand and
four hundred.

26:51 These were the nuthe children of Israel, six hundred
thousand and a thousand seven hundrty.

26:52 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 26:53 Unto these thll be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.

26 thou shalt give the more inheritance, and to few thou
shalt give the itance: to every one shall his inheritance be
given according to thosenumbered of him.

26:55 Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by lng to
the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.

26ing to the lot shall the possession thereof be divided
between many an:57 And these are they that were numbered of the Levites after their
families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites: of Kohath, the
family of the Kohathites: of Merari, the family of the Merarites.

26:58 These are the families of the Levites: the family of the
Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites,
the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korathites. And Kohath
begat Amram.

2659 And the name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi,
r mother bare to Levi in Egypt: and she bare unto Amram Aaron
and Moseriam their sister.

26:60 And unto Aaron was born Nadab, and Abihu, El Ithamar.

26:61 And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fthe LORD.

26:62 And those that were numbered of them were twenty and sand, all males from a month old and upward: for they were not
numberee children of Israel, because there was no
inheritance given them amondren of Israel.

26:63 These are they that were numbered by Moses and e
priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab byar Jericho.

26:64 But among these there was not a man of them whom Moe priest numbered, when they numbered the children of Israel in the
wif Sinai.

26:65 For the LORD had said of them, They shall surely die ilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the son
of  and Joshua the son of Nun.

27:1 Then came the daughters of Zelophehan of Hepher, the son
of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manassehamilies of
Manasseh the son of Joseph: and these are the names of his 
Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.

27:2 And they stoooses, and before Eleazar the priest, and
before the princes and all thtion, by the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, saying, 27:3 r died in the
wilderness, and he was not in the company of them that gemselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah; but died
i sin, and had no sons.

27:4 Why should the name of our father be done among his
family, because he hath no son? Give unto us therefore a poamong the brethren of our father.

27:5 And Moses brought their cause  LORD.

27:6 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 27:7 The daughtersehad speak right: thou shalt surely give them a possession of an
inherg their father’s brethren; and thou shalt cause the
inheritance of ter to pass unto them.

27:8 And thou shalt speak unto the children of aying, If a
man die, and have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritas
unto his daughter.

27:9 And if he have no daughter, then ye shall gheritance
unto his brethren.

27:10 And if he have no brethren, then yive his inheritance
unto his father’s brethren.

27:11 And if his fa no brethren, then ye shall give his
inheritance unto his kinsman thato him of his family, and he
shall possess it: and it shall be unto theof Israel a
statute of judgment, as the LORD commanded Moses.

27:12 AD said unto Moses, Get thee up into this mount
Abarim, and see the lan have given unto the children of
Israel.

27:13 And when thou hast see also shalt be gathered unto thy
people, as Aaron thy brother was gath14 For ye rebelled against my commandment in the desert of Zin, in
the the congregation, to sanctify me at the water before
their eyes: thatter of Meribah in Kadesh in the wilderness
of Zin.

27:15 And Moses sphe LORD, saying, 27:16 Let the LORD, the
God of the spirits of all fleman over the congregation,
27:17 Which may go out before them, and whiin before them,
and which may lead them out, and which may bring them he
congregation of the LORD be not as sheep which have no shepherd.

2the LORD said unto Moses, Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, a
man in whspirit, and lay thine hand upon him; 27:19 And set
him before Eleazar , and before all the congregation; and
give him a charge in their sigh And thou shalt put some of thine honour upon him, that all the
congre the children of Israel may be obedient.

27:21 And he shall stand befr the priest, who shall ask
counsel for him after the judgment of Urime LORD: at his
word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come he,
and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregatio2 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him: and he took Joshua, and
sete Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:
27:23 And he lands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the
LORD commanded by the hand

28:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 28:2 Command the childrel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for my
sacrifices made for a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe
to offer unto me in theison.

28:3 And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by  ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year
without spoay, for a continual burnt offering.

28:4 The one lamb shalt thou offemorning, and the other lamb
shalt thou offer at even; 28:5 And a tenthn ephah of flour
for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of aten
oil.

28:6 It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained inai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

28:7 nk offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin
for the one lamholy place shalt thou cause the strong wine
to be poured unto the LORDring.

28:8 And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat o the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer
it, ce made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

28:9 And on the sabo lambs of the first year without spot,
and two tenth deals of flour fffering, mingled with oil,
and the drink offering thereof: 28:10 This nt offering of
every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, andk
offering.

28:11 And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offeroffering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs
ot year without spot; 28:12 And three tenth deals of flour
for a meat oingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth
deals of flour for a mng, mingled with oil, for one ram;
28:13 And a several tenth deal of fed with oil for a meat
offering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering ofvour, a
sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

28:14 And their drink oshall be half an hin of wine unto a
bullock, and the third part of an  ram, and a fourth part of
an hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offerery month
throughout the months of the year.

28:15 And one kid of the a sin offering unto the LORD shall
be offered, beside the continual bng, and his drink
offering.

28:16 And in the fourteenth day of the fiis the passover of
the LORD.

28:17 And in the fifteenth day of this mhe feast: seven days
shall unleavened bread be eaten.

28:18 In the fill be an holy convocation; ye shall do no
manner of servile work thereBut ye shall offer a sacrifice
made by fire for a burnt offering unto two young bullocks,
and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: the unto you
without blemish: 28:20 And their meat offering shall be of gled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and
twols for a ram; 28:21 A several tenth deal shalt thou offer
for every lahout the seven lambs: 28:22 And one goat for a
sin offering, to make ant for you.

28:23 Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in t,
which is for a continual burnt offering.

28:24 After this manner yer daily, throughout the seven
days, the meat of the sacrifice made by sweet savour unto
the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual bing, and
his drink offering.

28:25 And on the seventh day ye shall ha convocation; ye
shall do no servile work.

28:26 Also in the day of tuits, when ye bring a new meat
offering unto the LORD, after your weeke shall have an holy
convocation; ye shall do no servile work: 28:27 Bl offer the
burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two youngks,
one ram, seven lambs of the first year; 28:28 And their meat offerur mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two
tenth deae ram, 28:29 A several tenth deal unto one lamb,
throughout the seven 30 And one kid of the goats, to make an
atonement for you.

28:31 Ye sr them beside the continual burnt offering, and his
meat offering, (thbe unto you without blemish) and their
drink offerings.

29:1 And in tmonth, on the first day of the month, ye shall
have an holy convocatio do no servile work: it is a day of
blowing the trumpets unto you.

29shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the
LORD; one you, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year
without blemish: 29:3 And offering shall be of flour
mingled with oil, three tenth deals for a d two tenth deals
for a ram, 29:4 And one tenth deal for one lamb, thre seven
lambs: 29:5 And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to manement for you: 29:6 Beside the burnt offering of the month, and
his mg, and the daily burnt offering, and his meat
offering, and their drins, according unto their manner, for
a sweet savour, a sacrifice made b the LORD.

29:7 And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh moy
convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any wo: 29:8 But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for a
sweet syoung bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first
year; they shall u without blemish: 29:9 And their meat
offering shall be of flour mingil, three tenth deals to a
bullock, and two tenth deals to one ram, 29ral tenth deal
for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 29:11 One kidr a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and the
continffering, and the meat offering of it, and their drink
offerings.

29:1he fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have an
holy convocatiol do no servile work, and ye shall keep a
feast unto the LORD seven daAnd ye shall offer a burnt
offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a swnto the LORD;
thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of
year; they shall be without blemish: 29:14 And their meat offering
shlour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto every
bullock of the thiocks, two tenth deals to each ram of the
two rams, 29:15 And a severalal to each lamb of the fourteen
lambs: 29:16 And one kid of the goats ffering; beside the
continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and hffering.

29:17 And on the second day ye shall offer twelve young bullrams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot: 29:18 And their
mg and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the
rams, and for thhall be according to their number, after the
manner: 29:19 And one kidats for a sin offering; beside the
continual burnt offering, and the mng thereof, and their
drink offerings.

29:20 And on the third day eles, two rams, fourteen lambs
of the first year without blemish; 29:21 Aeat offering and
their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams,the
lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:22oat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and
his mg, and his drink offering.

29:23 And on the fourth day ten bullocks,  fourteen lambs
of the first year without blemish: 29:24 Their meat of their
drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambe according to their number, after the manner: 29:25 And one
kid of tor a sin offering; beside the continual burnt
offering, his meat offers drink offering.

29:26 And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams,teen lambs
of the first year without spot: 29:27 And their meat offerieir drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the
lambs,according to their number, after the manner: 29:28 And
one goat for a ng; beside the continual burnt offering, and
his meat offering, and hifering.

29:29 And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, and four of the first year without blemish: 29:30 And their meat offering
and k offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the
lambs, shall b to their number, after the manner: 29:31 And
one goat for a sin offer the continual burnt offering, his
meat offering, and his drink offeri And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteen
lambs o year without blemish: 29:33 And their meat offering
and their drink or the bullocks, for the rams, and for the
lambs, shall be according tober, after the manner: 29:34 And
one goat for a sin offering; beside tal burnt offering, his
meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:35 Ohth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do
no servile work t36 But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a
sacrifice made by fire, of aur unto the LORD: one bullock,
one ram, seven lambs of the first year emish: 29:37 Their
meat offering and their drink offerings for the bulthe ram,
and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after : 29:38 And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual
burnt of his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:39 These things ye sha the LORD in your set feasts,
beside your vows, and your freewill offe your burnt
offerings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink,
and for your peace offerings.

29:40 And Moses told the children of ording to all that the
LORD commanded Moses.

30:1 And Moses spake unt of the tribes concerning the
children of Israel, saying, This is the h the LORD hath
commanded.

30:2 If a man vow a vow unto the LORD, or th to bind his
soul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shallng
to all that proceedeth out of his mouth.

30:3 If a woman also vow  the LORD, and bind herself by a
bond, being in her father’s house ih; 30:4 And her father
hear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath band her
father shall hold his peace at her; then all her vows shall stevery bond wherewith she hath bound her soul shall stand.

30:5 But ifer disallow her in the day that he heareth; not
any of her vows, or ofs wherewith she hath bound her soul,
shall stand: and the LORD shall f, because her father
disallowed her.

30:6 And if she had at all an hun she vowed, or uttered
ought out of her lips, wherewith she bound her7 And her
husband heard it, and held his peace at her in the day that t: then her vows shall stand, and her bonds wherewith she bound her
sostand.

30:8 But if her husband disallowed her on the day that he hearhe shall make her vow which she vowed, and that which she uttered
with wherewith she bound her soul, of none effect: and the
LORD shall forg30:9 But every vow of a widow, and of her that is divorced, wherewith
bound their souls, shall stand against her.

30:10 And if she vowed innd’s house, or bound her soul by a
bond with an oath; 30:11 And her rd it, and held his peace
at her, and disallowed her not: then all herl stand, and
every bond wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.

30:her husband hath utterly made them void on the day he
heard them; thener proceeded out of her lips concerning her
vows, or concerning the bosoul, shall not stand: her husband
hath made them void; and the LORD sve her.

30:13 Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, nd may establish it, or her husband may make it void.

30:14 But if he altogether hold his peace at her from day to
day; then he establishetvows, or all her bonds, which are
upon her: he confirmeth them, becaushis peace at her in the
day that he heard them.

30:15 But if he shallmake them void after that he hath heard
them; then he shall bear her i30:16 These are the statutes, which the LORD commanded Moses, between
his wife, between the father and his daughter, being yet in
her youth er’s house.

31:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:2 Avengeen
of Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered unto 

31:3 And Moses spake unto the people, saying, Arm some of yourselvesar, and let them go against the Midianites, and avenge the
LORD of MidOf every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel,
shall the war.

31:5 So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.

31:6 And Moses sent twar, a thousand of every tribe, them
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar t to the war, with the holy
instruments, and the trumpets to blow in hi:7 And they warred against the Midianites, as the LORD commanded
Mosesslew all the males.

31:8 And they slew the kings of Midian, beside thhem that
were slain; namely, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Rebngs of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with the sword.

e children of Israel took all the women of Midian captives,
and their , and took the spoil of all their cattle, and all
their flocks, and aloods.

31:10 And they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt, and agoodly castles, with fire.

31:11 And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of men and
of beasts.

31:12 And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto
Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the
children of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by
Jordan near Jericho.

31:13 And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the
congregation, weto meet them without the camp.

31:14 And Moses was wroth with the offhe host, with the
captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds,e from
the battle.

31:15 And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all alive?
31:16 Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the  Balaam, to commit trespass against the LORD in the matter of Peor,
ans a plague among the congregation of the LORD.

31:17 Now therefore kiale among the little ones, and kill
every woman that hath known man by him.

31:18 But all the women children, that have not known a man by  him, keep alive for yourselves.

31:19 And do ye abide without the cays: whosoever hath
killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any spurify both
yourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the 

31:20 And purify all your raiment, and all that is made of skins, angoats’ hair, and all things made of wood.

31:21 And Eleazar the prito the men of war which went to
the battle, This is the ordinance of tch the LORD commanded
Moses; 31:22 Only the gold, and the silver, the  iron, the
tin, and the lead, 31:23 Every thing that may abide the firl
make it go through the fire, and it shall be clean: nevertheless it
urified with the water of separation: and all that abideth
not the firmake go through the water.

31:24 And ye shall wash your clothes on thday, and ye shall
be clean, and afterward ye shall come into the camp.d the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 31:26 Take the sum of the
prey then, both of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the
priest, and the chrs of the congregation: 31:27 And divide
the prey into two parts; betwat took the war upon them, who
went out to battle, and between all theation: 31:28 And levy a
tribute unto the Lord of the men of war which o battle: one
soul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the beof
the asses, and of the sheep: 31:29 Take it of their half, and give eazar the priest, for an heave offering of the LORD.

31:30 And of thef Israel’s half, thou shalt take one
portion of fifty, of the personbeeves, of the asses, and of
the flocks, of all manner of beasts, and to the Levites,
which keep the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD.

Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commanded
Moses.

31:32 Ay, being the rest of the prey which the men of war
had caught, was sixousand and seventy thousand and five
thousand sheep, 31:33 And threescelve thousand beeves, 31:34
And threescore and one thousand asses, 31:rty and two
thousand persons in all, of women that had not known man bh
him.

31:36 And the half, which was the portion of them that went ou was in number three hundred thousand and seven and thirty
thousand andred sheep: 31:37 And the LORD’s tribute of the
sheep was six hundreescore and fifteen.

31:38 And the beeves were thirty and six thousand the LORD’s
tribute was threescore and twelve.

31:39 And the asses y thousand and five hundred; of which
the LORD’s tribute was threesc.

31:40 And the persons were sixteen thousand; of which the LORD’s
 thirty and two persons.

31:41 And Moses gave the tribute, which was s heave offering,
unto Eleazar the priest, as the LORD commanded Mosesnd of the children of Israel’s half, which Moses divided from
the meed, 31:43 (Now the half that pertained unto the
congregation was threehousand and thirty thousand and seven
thousand and five hundred sheep,thirty and six thousand
beeves, 31:45 And thirty thousand asses and fi, 31:46 And
sixteen thousand persons;) 31:47 Even of the children of Ialf, Moses took one portion of fifty, both of man and of beast, and
gato the Levites, which kept the charge of the tabernacle of
the LORD; a commanded Moses.

31:48 And the officers which were over thousands ofthe
captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, came near unto Mo9 And they said unto Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of the
menich are under our charge, and there lacketh not one man
of us.

31:50 herefore brought an oblation for the LORD, what every
man hath gotten,of gold, chains, and bracelets, rings,
earrings, and tablets, to make nt for our souls before the
LORD.

31:51 And Moses and Eleazar the prihe gold of them, even all
wrought jewels.

31:52 And all the gold of tg that they offered up to the
LORD, of the captains of thousands, and tains of hundreds,
was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekel(For the men of war had taken spoil, every man for himself.)
31:54 AndEleazar the priest took the gold of the captains
of thousands and of hd brought it into the tabernacle of
the congregation, for a memorial fldren of Israel before the
LORD.

32:1 Now the children of Reuben and en of Gad had a very
great multitude of cattle: and when they saw the zer, and
the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for c children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spake
unto Moses,eazar the priest, and unto the princes of the
congregation, saying, 32h, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah,
and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Sheebo, and Beon, 32:4 Even
the country which the LORD smote before the cn of Israel, is
a land for cattle, and thy servants have cattle: 32:5  said
they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be givey servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan.

32:6 And M unto the children of Gad and to the children of
Reuben, Shall your brto war, and shall ye sit here?  32:7
And wherefore discourage ye the he children of Israel from
going over into the land which the LORD hathm?  32:8 Thus
did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to nd.

32:9 For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw the discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they
should nothe land which the LORD had given them.

32:10 And the LORD’s anger w the same time, and he sware,
saying, 32:11 Surely none of the men thaut of Egypt, from
twenty years old and upward, shall see the land whicnto
Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not wholly
me: 32:12 Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, and
Joshua then: for they have wholly followed the LORD.

32:13 And the LORD’s angled against Israel, and he made
them wander in the wilderness forty ye all the generation,
that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was 
32:14 And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers’ stead, an increful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD toward
Israel.

3f ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them
in the wilnd ye shall destroy all this people.

32:16 And they came near unto hid, We will build sheepfolds
here for our cattle, and cities for our li 32:17 But we
ourselves will go ready armed before the children of Isr we
have brought them unto their place: and our little ones shall dwelfenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.

32:18 We will nnto our houses, until the children of Israel
have inherited every man tance.

32:19 For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan,d; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordan
eastwarnd Moses said unto them, If ye will do this thing, if ye will
go armed LORD to war, 32:21 And will go all of you armed
over Jordan before thil he hath driven out his enemies from
before him, 32:22 And the land before the LORD: then
afterward ye shall return, and be guiltless befo, and
before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the2:23 But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against the
LORDure your sin will find you out.

32:24 Build you cities for your littld folds for your sheep;
and do that which hath proceeded out of your m25 And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake unto
Moseshy servants will do as my lord commandeth.

32:26 Our little ones, our flocks, and all our cattle,
shall be there in the cities of Gilead: 3hy servants will
pass over, every man armed for war, before the LORD ts my
lord saith.

32:28 So concerning them Moses commanded Eleazar thed
Joshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the
chsrael: 32:29 And Moses said unto them, If the children of
Gad and the  Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, every
man armed to battle, befRD, and the land shall be subdued
before you; then ye shall give them Gilead for a
possession: 32:30 But if they will not pass over with youy
shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.

32:31 And tn of Gad and the children of Reuben answered,
saying, As the LORD hath thy servants, so will we do.

32:32 We will pass over armed before th the land of Canaan,
that the possession of our inheritance on this si may be
ours.

32:33 And Moses gave unto them, even to the children of to
the children of Reuben, and unto half the tribe of Manasseh the soh, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of
Og kian, the land, with the cities thereof in the coasts,
even the cities ontry round about.

32:34 And the children of Gad built Dibon, and Atarr,
32:35 And Atroth, Shophan, and Jaazer, and Jogbehah, 32:36 And
Bethd Bethharan, fenced cities: and folds for sheep.

32:37 And the children built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and
Kirjathaim, 32:38 And Nebo, and Baaeir names being changed,)
and Shibmah: and gave other names unto the ch they builded.

32:39 And the children of Machir the son of Manasseh lead,
and took it, and dispossessed the Amorite which was in it.

32:4s gave Gilead unto Machir the son of Manasseh; and he
dwelt therein.

Jair the son of Manasseh went and took the small towns
thereof, and caHavothjair.

32:42 And Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages th
called it Nobah, after his own name.

33:1 These are the journeys of ren of Israel, which went
forth out of the land of Egypt with their arr the hand of
Moses and Aaron.

33:2 And Moses wrote their goings out to their journeys by
the commandment of the LORD: and these are their ccording to
their goings out.

33:3 And they departed from Rameses in  month, on the
fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after tr the
children of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of altians.

33:4 For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, which the Ltten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.

33 children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in
Succoth.

33: departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in
the edge of ness.

33:7 And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiris before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.

33:8 And they dm before Pihahiroth, and passed through the
midst of the sea into the , and went three days’ journey in
the wilderness of Etham, and pitch.

33:9 And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim w fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they
pitch33:10 And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.

33:11 emoved from the Red sea, and encamped in the
wilderness of Sin.

33:12took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and
encamped in DophkAnd they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.

33:14 And theyom Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was
no water for the people 
33:15 And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness

33:16 And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at
Kibro.

33:17 And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at
Haze18 And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.

33:19 Andarted from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.

33:20 And they departimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.

33:21 And they removed from Libnahed at Rissah.

33:22 And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Ke
33:23 And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.

3hey removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.

33:25 And th from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.

33:26 And they removed from  and encamped at Tahath.

33:27 And they departed from Tahath, and pitrah.

33:28 And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.

33:2 went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.

33:30 And they departedhmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.

33:31 And they departed from Moserotched in Benejaakan.

33:32 And they removed from Benejaakan, and encahagidgad.

33:33 And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbat34 And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.

33:35 Anarted from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.

33:36 And they removeongaber, and pitched in the wilderness
of Zin, which is Kadesh.

33:37 removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the
edge of the lan

33:38 And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandmentORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children
of Israel out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of the
fifth month.

33:39 was an hundred and twenty and three years old when he
died in mount HAnd king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the
land of Crd of the coming of the children of Israel.

33:41 And they departed for, and pitched in Zalmonah.

33:42 And they departed from Zalmonah, aPunon.

33:43 And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.

33:they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the
border of M5 And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad.

33:46 And theyrom Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.

33:47 And they removedndiblathaim, and pitched in the
mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.

33:y departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in
the plains of rdan near Jericho.

33:49 And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimotto
Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.

33:50 And the LORD spake unto Mhe plains of Moab by Jordan
near Jericho, saying, 33:51 Speak unto theof Israel, and say
unto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the naan;
33:52 Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land fr you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all their
molten imauite pluck down all their high places: 33:53 And
ye shall dispossess tants of the land, and dwell therein:
for I have given you the land to .

33:54 And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among
es: and to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, and
to the fewl give the less inheritance: every man’s
inheritance shall be in thee his lot falleth; according to
the tribes of your fathers ye shall in55 But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from
beforn it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remain
of them shall in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and
shall vex you in the land dwell.

33:56 Moreover it shall come to pass, that I shall do unto youught to do unto them.

34:1 And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 34:the children
of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land ;
(this is the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, even
f Canaan with the coasts thereof:) 34:3 Then your south
quarter shall  wilderness of Zin along by the coast of
Edom, and your south border se outmost coast of the salt sea
eastward: 34:4 And your border shall the south to the ascent
of Akrabbim, and pass on to Zin: and the going of shall be
from the south to Kadeshbarnea, and shall go on to Hazaradss on to Azmon: 34:5 And the border shall fetch a compass from Azmon
uver of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.

34:6 And  western border, ye shall even have the great sea
for a border: this sr west border.

34:7 And this shall be your north border: from the greshall
point out for you mount Hor: 34:8 From mount Hor ye shall point rder unto the entrance of Hamath; and the goings forth of the
border sZedad: 34:9 And the border shall go on to Ziphron,
and the goings out l be at Hazarenan: this shall be your
north border.

34:10 And ye shal your east border from Hazarenan to
Shepham: 34:11 And the coast shallrom Shepham to Riblah, on
the east side of Ain; and the border shall d shall reach
unto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward: 34:12 Ander
shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the this shall be your land with the coasts thereof round about.

34:13 Anommanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the
land which ye shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give
unto the nine tribes, and to the half tribe: 34:14 For the tribe of
the children of Reuben according to the house of their fathers, and
the tribe of the children of Gad according to the house of their
fathers, have received their inheritance; and half the tribe of
Manasseh have received their inheritance: 34:15 The two tribes and the
half tribe have received their ice on this side Jordan near
Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.

3e LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 34:17 These are the names
of the men l divide the land unto you: Eleazar the priest,
and Joshua the son of 8 And ye shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the land
by ie.

34:19 And the names of the men are these: Of the tribe of Judah, Cn of Jephunneh.

34:20 And of the tribe of the children of Simeon, She of
Ammihud.

34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of ChisloAnd the prince of the tribe of the children of Dan, Bukki the
son of J23 The prince of the children of Joseph, for the tribe of the
childrensseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.

34:24 And the prince of the tribe of f Ephraim, Kemuel
the son of Shiphtan.

34:25 And the prince of the tre children of Zebulun,
Elizaphan the son of Parnach.

34:26 And the prhe tribe of the children of Issachar, Paltiel
the son of Azzan.

34:27ince of the tribe of the children of Asher, Ahihud the
son of Shelomi.d the prince of the tribe of the children of Naphtali, Pedahel
the sond.

34:29 These are they whom the LORD commanded to divide the inherit the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.

35:1 And the LORD spaks in the plains of Moab by Jordan
near Jericho, saying, 35:2 Command tn of Israel, that they
give unto the Levites of the inheritance of theion cities to
dwell in; and ye shall give also unto the Levites suburbcities round about them.

35:3 And the cities shall they have to dwelle suburbs of
them shall be for their cattle, and for their goods, and heir
beasts.

35:4 And the suburbs of the cities, which ye shall give vites, shall reach from the wall of the city and outward a thousand
cu about.

35:5 And ye shall measure from without the city on the east susand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on the
we thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand
cubits; and the ce in the midst: this shall be to them the
suburbs of the cities.

35:6 the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites there
shall be six ciefuge, which ye shall appoint for the
manslayer, that he may flee thito them ye shall add forty
and two cities.

35:7 So all the cities whic give to the Levites shall be
forty and eight cities: them shall ye gieir suburbs.

35:8 And the cities which ye shall give shall be of the  of
the children of Israel: from them that have many ye shall give manm them that have few ye shall give few: every one shall give of
his cithe Levites according to his inheritance which he
inheriteth.

35:9 An spake unto Moses, saying, 35:10 Speak unto the
children of Israel, an them, When ye be come over Jordan
into the land of Canaan; 35:11 Then appoint you cities to be
cities of refuge for you; that the slayer mather, which
killeth any person at unawares.

35:12 And they shall be uies for refuge from the avenger;
that the manslayer die not, until he ore the congregation in
judgment.

35:13 And of these cities which ye e six cities shall ye have
for refuge.

35:14 Ye shall give three citis side Jordan, and three cities
shall ye give in the land of Canaan, wll be cities of refuge.

35:15 These six cities shall be a refuge, bothe children of
Israel, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner amohat
every one that killeth any person unawares may flee thither.

35:1e smite him with an instrument of iron, so that he die,
he is a murderderer shall surely be put to death.

35:17 And if he smite him with thtone, wherewith he may die,
and he die, he is a murderer: the murdererely be put to
death.

35:18 Or if he smite him with an hand weapon of ewith he may
die, and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surto
death.

35:19 The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderermeeteth him, he shall slay him.

35:20 But if he thrust him of hatred,t him by laying of
wait, that he die; 35:21 Or in enmity smite him wit, that he
die: he that smote him shall surely be put to death; for he rer: the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer, when he
meeteth hiBut if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or have cast upon
him anthout laying of wait, 35:23 Or with any stone,
wherewith a man may diem not, and cast it upon him, that he
die, and was not his enemy, neithis harm: 35:24 Then the
congregation shall judge between the slayer anvenger of blood
according to these judgments: 35:25 And the congregatideliver
the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the
con shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither he
was fled: all abide in it unto the death of the high priest,
which was anointed wy oil.

35:26 But if the slayer shall at any time come without the bore city of his refuge, whither he was fled; 35:27 And the revenger of
b without the borders of the city of his refuge, and the
revenger of blhe slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood:
35:28 Because he should ha in the city of his refuge until
the death of the high priest: but aftth of the high priest
the slayer shall return into the land of his pos35:29 So these things shall be for a statute of judgment unto you
throur generations in all your dwellings.

35:30 Whoso killeth any person,rer shall be put to death by
the mouth of witnesses: but one witness sestify against any
person to cause him to die.

35:31 Moreover ye shalsatisfaction for the life of a
murderer, which is guilty of death: butbe surely put to
death.

35:32 And ye shall take no satisfaction for hfled to the
city of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in ,
until the death of the priest.

35:33 So ye shall not pollute the laye are: for blood it
defileth the land: and the land cannot be cleanselood that
is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.

35:3t therefore the land which ye shall inhabit, wherein I
dwell: for I thl among the children of Israel.

36:1 And the chief fathers of the fame children of Gilead,
the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the f the sons of
Joseph, came near, and spake before Moses, and before thehe
chief fathers of the children of Israel: 36:2 And they said, The LOd my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to the
children ond my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the
inheritance of Zelophrother unto his daughters.

36:3 And if they be married to any of the e other tribes of
the children of Israel, then shall their inheritancerom the
inheritance of our fathers, and shall be put to the inheritancibe whereunto they are received: so shall it be taken from the lot
of tance.

36:4 And when the jubile of the children of Israel shall be, their inheritance be put unto the inheritance of the tribe
whereunto thived: so shall their inheritance be taken away
from the inheritance of of our fathers.

36:5 And Moses commanded the children of Israel acco the word
of the LORD, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath sa36:6 This is the thing which the LORD doth command concerning the
daugelophehad, saying, Let them marry to whom they think
best; only to thethe tribe of their father shall they
marry.

36:7 So shall not the inhf the children of Israel remove
from tribe to tribe: for every one of en of Israel shall
keep himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his36:8 And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe
odren of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the
tribe of hthat the children of Israel may enjoy every man
the inheritance of his

36:9 Neither shall the inheritance remove from one tribe to another
 every one of the tribes of the children of Israel shall
keep himself  inheritance.

36:10 Even as the LORD commanded Moses, so did the dauglophehad: 36:11 For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and
Noah, rs of Zelophehad, were married unto their father’s
brothers’ sons: they were married into the families of the
sons of Manasseh the son ond their inheritance remained in
the tribe of the family of their fathThese are the commandments and the judgments, which the LORD
commandednd of Moses unto the children of Israel in the
plains of Moab by Jordaricho.




The Fifth Book of Moses:  Called Deuteronomy


1:1 These bewhich Moses spake unto all Israel on this side
Jordan in the wilderneslain over against the Red sea,
between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, ah, and Dizahab.

1:2 (There are eleven days’ journey from Horeb by tmount
Seir unto Kadeshbarnea.)  1:3 And it came to pass in the fortiet the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses
spake uldren of Israel, according unto all that the LORD
had given him in comnto them; 1:4 After he had slain Sihon
the king of the Amorites, which Heshbon, and Og the king of
Bashan, which dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei:is side Jordan, in
the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law,  The
LORD our God spake unto us in Horeb, saying, Ye have dwelt long ehis mount: 1:7 Turn you, and take your journey, and go to the
mount ofs, and unto all the places nigh thereunto, in the
plain, in the hills,e vale, and in the south, and by the sea
side, to the land of the Canad unto Lebanon, unto the great
river, the river Euphrates.

1:8 Beholdet the land before you: go in and possess the land
which the LORD swarr fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to
give unto them and to their sthem.

1:9 And I spake unto you at that time, saying, I am not able toyself alone: 1:10 The LORD your God hath multiplied you, and,
behold, s day as the stars of heaven for multitude.

1:11 (The LORD God of youake you a thousand times so many
more as ye are, and bless you, as he sed you!)  1:12 How can
I myself alone bear your cumbrance, and your byour strife?
1:13 Take you wise men, and understanding, and known amones, and I will make them rulers over you.

1:14 And ye answered me, an thing which thou hast spoken is
good for us to do.

1:15 So I took th your tribes, wise men, and known, and made
them heads over you, captaousands, and captains over
hundreds, and captains over fifties, and car tens, and
officers among your tribes.

1:16 And I charged your judgeime, saying, Hear the causes
between your brethren, and judge righteou every man and his
brother, and the stranger that is with him.

1:17 Y respect persons in judgment; but ye shall hear the
small as well as tye shall not be afraid of the face of man;
for the judgment is God’sause that is too hard for you,
bring it unto me, and I will hear it.

I commanded you at that time all the things which ye should
do.

1:19 e departed from Horeb, we went through all that great
and terrible wilhich ye saw by the way of the mountain of
the Amorites, as the LORD ounded us; and we came to
Kadeshbarnea.

1:20 And I said unto you, Ye aro the mountain of the
Amorites, which the LORD our God doth give unto  Behold, the LORD thy God hath set the land before thee: go up and
pos the LORD God of thy fathers hath said unto thee; fear
not, neither beed.

1:22 And ye came near unto me every one of you, and said, We willefore us, and they shall search us out the land, and bring us
word aga way we must go up, and into what cities we shall
come.

1:23 And the ased me well: and I took twelve men of you, one
of a tribe: 1:24 And tand went up into the mountain, and
came unto the valley of Eshcol, andt out.

1:25 And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, an it down unto us, and brought us word again, and said, It is a
good lae LORD our God doth give us.

1:26 Notwithstanding ye would not go up,ed against the
commandment of the LORD your God: 1:27 And ye murmured nts,
and said, Because the LORD hated us, he hath brought us forth outnd of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to
destroy uhither shall we go up? our brethren have discouraged our heart,
sayinge is greater and taller than we; the cities are great
and walled up tod moreover we have seen the sons of the
Anakims there.

1:29 Then I saou, Dread not, neither be afraid of them.

1:30 The LORD your God whicefore you, he shall fight for you,
according to all that he did for yo before your eyes; 1:31
And in the wilderness, where thou hast seen hoLORD thy God
bare thee, as a man doth bear his son, in all the way tha
until ye came into this place.

1:32 Yet in this thing ye did not belLORD your God, 1:33 Who
went in the way before you, to search you out  pitch your
tents in, in fire by night, to shew you by what way ye shod
in a cloud by day.

1:34 And the LORD heard the voice of your words,oth, and
sware, saying, 1:35 Surely there shall not one of these men ol generation see that good land, which I sware to give unto your
fatheave Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him will
I givthat he hath trodden upon, and to his children,
because he hath whollythe LORD.

1:37 Also the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, saying
shalt not go in thither.

1:38 But Joshua the son of Nun, which stande thee, he shall
go in thither: encourage him: for he shall cause Israrit it.

1:39 Moreover your little ones, which ye said should be a preildren, which in that day had no knowledge between good and
evil, theyin thither, and unto them will I give it, and they
shall possess it.

as for you, turn you, and take your journey into the
wilderness by thee Red sea.

1:41 Then ye answered and said unto me, We have sinned agaORD, we will go up and fight, according to all that the LORD our God
cus.

And when ye had girded on every man his weapons of war, ye were ro up into the hill.

1:42 And the LORD said unto me, Say unto them. Goeither
fight; for I am not among you; lest ye be smitten before your e:43 So I spake unto you; and ye would not hear, but rebelled against
tdment of the LORD, and went presumptuously up into the hill.

1:44 Andtes, which dwelt in that mountain, came out against
you, and chased yo do, and destroyed you in Seir, even unto
Hormah.

1:45 And ye returnebefore the LORD; but the LORD would not
hearken to your voice, nor givyou.

1:46 So ye abode in Kadesh many days, according unto the days thode there.

2:1 Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderneay of the Red sea, as the LORD spake unto me: and we compassed mount
Sys.

2:2 And the LORD spake unto me, saying, 2:3 Ye have compassed thilong enough: turn you northward.

2:4 And command thou the people, saye to pass through the
coast of your brethren the children of Esau, whin Seir; and
they shall be afraid of you: take ye good heed unto yourseore: 2:5 Meddle not with them; for I will not give you of their
land, much as a foot breadth; because I have given mount
Seir unto Esau for on.

2:6 Ye shall buy meat of them for money, that ye may eat; and ye  buy water of them for money, that ye may drink.

2:7 For the LORD thylessed thee in all the works of thy
hand: he knoweth thy walking throuat wilderness: these
forty years the LORD thy God hath been with thee;lacked
nothing.

2:8 And when we passed by from our brethren the child,
which dwelt in Seir, through the way of the plain from Elath, and frer, we turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.

2:9 An said unto me, Distress not the Moabites, neither
contend with them inr I will not give thee of their land
for a possession; because I have to the children of Lot for
a possession.

2:10 The Emims dwelt thereinast, a people great, and many,
and tall, as the Anakims; 2:11 Which alounted giants, as
the Anakims; but the Moabites called them Emims.

2:ims also dwelt in Seir beforetime; but the children of
Esau succeeded n they had destroyed them from before them,
and dwelt in their stead; did unto the land of his
possession, which the LORD gave unto them.

2e up, said I, and get you over the brook Zered. And we
went over the b.

2:14 And the space in which we came from Kadeshbarnea, until we werr the brook Zered, was thirty and eight years; until all the
generatiomen of war were wasted out from among the host, as
the LORD sware unto15 For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them
fhe host, until they were consumed.

2:16 So it came to pass, when all  war were consumed and
dead from among the people, 2:17 That the LORD spake unto me, saying,
2:18 Thou art to pass over through Ar, the coast of Moab, this day:
2:19 And when thou comest nigh over against the children of Ammon,
distress them not, nor meddle with them: for I will not give thee of
the land of the children of Ammon any possession; because I have given
it unto the children of Lot for a possession.

2:20 hat also was accounted a land of giants: giants dwelt therein
in old the Ammonites call them Zamzummims; 2:21 A people
great, and many, and he Anakims; but the LORD destroyed them
before them; and they succeedend dwelt in their stead: 2:22
As he did to the children of Esau, whichSeir, when he
destroyed the Horims from before them; and they succeeded
dwelt in their stead even unto this day: 2:23 And the Avims which
dwerim, even unto Azzah, the Caphtorims, which came forth
out of Caphtor them, and dwelt in their stead.)  2:24 Rise
ye up, take your journey,over the river Arnon: behold, I
have given into thine hand Sihon the Ang of Heshbon, and his
land: begin to possess it, and contend with himis day will I begin to put the dread of thee and the fear of
thee uponations that are under the whole heaven, who shall hear
report of thee,tremble, and be in anguish because of thee.

2:26 And I sent messengerhe wilderness of Kedemoth unto
Sihon king of Heshbon with words of pea, 2:27 Let me pass
through thy land: I will go along by the high way, ither turn
unto the right hand nor to the left.

2:28 Thou shalt sell or money, that I may eat; and give me
water for money, that I may drin will pass through on my
feet; 2:29 (As the children of Esau which dwe, and the
Moabites which dwell in Ar, did unto me;) until I shall pass into the land which the LORD our God giveth us.

2:30 But Sihon king  would not let us pass by him: for the
LORD thy God hardened his spiri his heart obstinate, that
he might deliver him into thy hand, as appeday.

2:31 And the LORD said unto me, Behold, I have begun to give Sih land before thee: begin to possess, that thou mayest inherit his
landen Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to fight
at Jahazd the LORD our God delivered him before us; and we smote him,
and his  all his people.

2:34 And we took all his cities at that time, and utroyed
the men, and the women, and the little ones, of every city, we l remain: 2:35 Only the cattle we took for a prey unto
ourselves, and tf the cities which we took.

2:36 From Aroer, which is by the brink of of Arnon, and from
the city that is by the river, even unto Gilead, tot one
city too strong for us: the LORD our God delivered all unto us: unto the land of the children of Ammon thou camest not, nor unto
any he river Jabbok, nor unto the cities in the mountains,
nor unto whatsoRD our God forbad us.

3:1 Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashthe king of
Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to batti.

3:2 And the LORD said unto me, Fear him not: for I will deliver hi his people, and his land, into thy hand; and thou shalt do
unto him adst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt at
Heshbon.

3:3 So t God delivered into our hands Og also, the king of
Bashan, and all hisnd we smote him until none was left to
him remaining.

3:4 And we tookities at that time, there was not a city
which we took not from them, e cities, all the region of
Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.

3:5 Aties were fenced with high walls, gates, and bars;
beside unwalled towmany.

3:6 And we utterly destroyed them, as we did unto Sihon king ofutterly destroying the men, women, and children, of every
city.

3:7 B cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a
prey to ourselves.e took at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the
Amorites tat was on this side Jordan, from the river of
Arnon unto mount Hermon; Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion;
and the Amorites call it Shenir;) 3e cities of the plain,
and all Gilead, and all Bashan, unto Salchah anties of the
kingdom of Og in Bashan.

3:11 For only Og king of Bashan  the remnant of giants;
behold his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; isbbath of
the children of Ammon? nine cubits was the length thereof, anbits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man.

3:12 And this land,ossessed at that time, from Aroer, which
is by the river Arnon, and halead, and the cities thereof,
gave I unto the Reubenites and to the Ga13 And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, being the kingdom of Og,
gathe half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, with
all Bashan, called the land of giants.

3:14 Jair the son of Manasseh took all thef Argob unto the
coasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them afteame,
Bashanhavothjair, unto this day.

3:15 And I gave Gilead unto Mac And unto the Reubenites and unto the Gadites I gave from Gilead
even ver Arnon half the valley, and the border even unto
the river Jabbok, e border of the children of Ammon; 3:17
The plain also, and Jordan, ant thereof, from Chinnereth
even unto the sea of the plain, even the sader Ashdothpisgah
eastward.

3:18 And I commanded you at that time, saLORD your God hath
given you this land to possess it: ye shall pass ovre
your brethren the children of Israel, all that are meet for the waryour wives, and your little ones, and your cattle, (for I
know that yecattle,) shall abide in your cities which I
have given you; 3:20 Until have given rest unto your
brethren, as well as unto you, and until thssess the land
which the LORD your God hath given them beyond Jordan: hall
ye return every man unto his possession, which I have given you.
 commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Thine eyes have seen
all that our God hath done unto these two kings: so shall
the LORD do unto all oms whither thou passest.

3:22 Ye shall not fear them: for the LORD y shall fight for
you.

3:23 And I besought the LORD at that time, sayi Lord GOD,
thou hast begun to shew thy servant thy greatness, and thy d: for what God is there in heaven or in earth, that can do
according ks, and according to thy might?  3:25 I pray thee,
let me go over, andod land that is beyond Jordan, that
goodly mountain, and Lebanon.

3:2LORD was wroth with me for your sakes, and would not hear
me: and the nto me, Let it suffice thee; speak no more unto
me of this matter.

3:e up into the top of Pisgah, and lift up thine eyes
westward, and nortsouthward, and eastward, and behold it
with thine eyes: for thou shalter this Jordan.

3:28 But charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengor he
shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inhland which thou shalt see.

3:29 So we abode in the valley over againsr.

4:1 Now therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the statutes and unto ths, which I teach you, for to do them, that ye may live, and go
in and e land which the LORD God of your fathers giveth you.

4:2 Ye shall noo the word which I command you, neither shall
ye diminish ought from i may keep the commandments of the
LORD your God which I command you.

eyes have seen what the LORD did because of Baalpeor: for all
the men wed Baalpeor, the LORD thy God hath destroyed them
from among you.

4:hat did cleave unto the LORD your God are alive every one
of you this ehold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the LORD
my Gd me, that ye should do so in the land whither ye go to
possess it.

4erefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and your
understanding int of the nations, which shall hear all these
statutes, and say, Surelyt nation is a wise and
understanding people.

4:7 For what nation is teat, who hath God so nigh unto them,
as the LORD our God is in all thie call upon him for?  4:8
And what nation is there so great, that hathnd judgments so
righteous as all this law, which I set before you this9 Only
take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou fthings which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy
heartdays of thy life: but teach them thy sons, and thy sons’
sons; 4:10 the day that thou stoodest before the LORD thy
God in Horeb, when the unto me, Gather me the people
together, and I will make them hear my w they may learn to
fear me all the days that they shall live upon the  that
they may teach their children.

4:11 And ye came near and stood mountain; and the mountain
burned with fire unto the midst of heaven, ss, clouds, and
thick darkness.

4:12 And the LORD spake unto you out st of the fire: ye
heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitudeheard a
voice.

4:13 And he declared unto you his covenant, which he cu to
perform, even ten commandments; and he wrote them upon two tables.

4:14 And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes ats, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go over to
possess itake ye therefore good heed unto yourselves; for ye saw no manner
of sin the day that the LORD spake unto you in Horeb out of
the midst of th:16 Lest ye corrupt yourselves, and make you a
graven image, the simily figure, the likeness of male or
female, 4:17 The likeness of any beaon the earth, the
likeness of any winged fowl that flieth in the air, ikeness
of any thing that creepeth on the ground, the likeness of any s in the waters beneath the earth: 4:19 And lest thou lift up
thine eyeaven, and when thou seest the sun, and the moon, and
the stars, even heaven, shouldest be driven to worship
them, and serve them, which they God hath divided unto all
nations under the whole heaven.

4:20 But ath taken you, and brought you forth out of the
iron furnace, even out to be unto him a people of
inheritance, as ye are this day.

4:21 Furthe LORD was angry with me for your sakes, and sware
that I should notordan, and that I should not go in unto
that good land, which the LORDiveth thee for an inheritance:
4:22 But I must die in this land, I musver Jordan: but ye
shall go over, and possess that good land.

4:23 Tato yourselves, lest ye forget the covenant of the
LORD your God, whichth you, and make you a graven image, or
the likeness of any thing, whiD thy God hath forbidden thee.

4:24 For the LORD thy God is a consumieven a jealous God.

4:25 When thou shalt beget children, and childrenen, and ye
shall have remained long in the land, and shall corrupt yound make a graven image, or the likeness of any thing, and shall do
evisight of the LORD thy God, to provoke him to anger: 4:26 I
call heavento witness against you this day, that ye shall
soon utterly perish froland whereunto ye go over Jordan to
possess it; ye shall not prolong ypon it, but shall utterly
be destroyed.

4:27 And the LORD shall scattng the nations, and ye shall be
left few in number among the heathen,  LORD shall lead you.

4:28 And there ye shall serve gods, the work ofands, wood and
stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell. if from thence thou shalt seek the LORD thy God, thou shalt
find him,ek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul.

4:30 When thou art ition, and all these things are come upon
thee, even in the latter daysturn to the LORD thy God, and
shalt be obedient unto his voice; 4:31 (RD thy God is a
merciful God;) he will not forsake thee, neither destror
forget the covenant of thy fathers which he sware unto them.

4:32 w of the days that are past, which were before thee,
since the day thated man upon the earth, and ask from the
one side of heaven unto the oer there hath been any such
thing as this great thing is, or hath beene it?  4:33 Did
ever people hear the voice of God speaking out of the he
fire, as thou hast heard, and live?  4:34 Or hath God assayed to gohim a nation from the midst of another nation, by
temptations, by signwonders, and by war, and by a mighty
hand, and by a stretched out arm,eat terrors, according to
all that the LORD your God did for you in Eg your eyes?
4:35 Unto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest know thathe
is God; there is none else beside him.

4:36 Out of heaven he made ar his voice, that he might
instruct thee: and upon earth he shewed that fire; and thou
heardest his words out of the midst of the fire.

4:ause he loved thy fathers, therefore he chose their seed
after them, athee out in his sight with his mighty power
out of Egypt; 4:38 To drivions from before thee greater and
mightier than thou art, to bring theive thee their land for
an inheritance, as it is this day.

4:39 Know e this day, and consider it in thine heart, that the
LORD he is God inve, and upon the earth beneath: there is
none else.

4:40 Thou shalt kfore his statutes, and his commandments,
which I command thee this daymay go well with thee, and with
thy children after thee, and that thoulong thy days upon
the earth, which the LORD thy God giveth thee, for 41 Then Moses severed three cities on this side Jordan toward the
sunr2 That the slayer might flee thither, which should kill
his neighbour and hated him not in times past; and that
fleeing unto one of these ciight live: 4:43 Namely, Bezer in
the wilderness, in the plain country,ubenites; and Ramoth in
Gilead, of the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, ossites.

4:44 And this is the law which Moses set before the children  4:45 These are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the
judgments,  spake unto the children of Israel, after they
came forth out of Egypt this side Jordan, in the valley over against Bethpeor, in the
land ofg of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses
and the children oe, after they were come forth out of
Egypt: 4:47 And they possessed hiand the land of Og king of
Bashan, two kings of the Amorites, which we side Jordan
toward the sunrising; 4:48 From Aroer, which is by the ba
river Arnon, even unto mount Sion, which is Hermon, 4:49 And all the
his side Jordan eastward, even unto the sea of the plain,
under the spisgah.

5:1 And Moses called all Israel, and said unto them, Hear, O Ie statutes and judgments which I speak in your ears this day, that
ye  them, and keep, and do them.

5:2 The LORD our God made a covenant wiHoreb.

5:3 The LORD made not this covenant with our fathers, but with us, who are all of us here alive this day.

5:4 The LORD talked with  face in the mount out of the
midst of the fire, 5:5 (I stood between d you at that time,
to shew you the word of the LORD: for ye were afran of the
fire, and went not up into the mount;) saying, 5:6 I am the Ld, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of
bondThou shalt have none other gods before me.

5:8 Thou shalt not make thven image, or any likeness of any
thing that is in heaven above, or thhe earth beneath, or
that is in the waters beneath the earth: 5:9 Thout bow down
thyself unto them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God as
God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto thefourth generation of them that hate me, 5:10 And shewing
mercy unto th them that love me and keep my commandments.

5:11 Thou shalt not take of the LORD thy God in vain: for the
LORD will not hold him guiltlessth his name in vain.

5:12 Keep the sabbath day to sanctify it, as theod hath
commanded thee.

5:13 Six days thou shalt labour, and do all t: 5:14 But the
seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it t not
do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservthy maidservant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thy
cattle, nranger that is within thy gates; that thy manservant
and thy maidservat as well as thou.

5:15 And remember that thou wast a servant in the ypt, and
that the LORD thy God brought thee out thence through a might by a stretched out arm: therefore the LORD thy God commanded thee
to bbath day.

5:16 Honour thy father and thy mother, as the LORD thy Godnded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go
well witn the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

5:17 Thou shalt not kiNeither shalt thou commit adultery.

5:19 Neither shalt thou steal.

5er shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbour.

5:21 Neither ou desire thy neighbours wife, neither shalt
thou covet thy neighbourss field, or his manservant, or his
maidservant, his ox, or his ass, org that is thy neighbours.

5:22 These words the LORD spake unto all yoly in the mount
out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of thekness,
with a great voice: and he added no more. And he wrote them in s of stone, and delivered them unto me.

5:23 And it came to pass, whed the voice out of the midst of
the darkness, (for the mountain did bufire,) that ye came near
unto me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders; 5:24 And
ye said, Behold, the LORD our God hath shewed us his glory and his
greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire:
we have seen this day that God doth talk with man, and he liveth.

5:25 Now therefore why should we die? for this great fire will consume
us: if we hear the voice of the LORD our God any mothen we shall
die.

5:26 For who is there of all flesh, that hath hearce of the
living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we haved?  5:27 Go thou near, and hear all that the LORD our God shall
say: ahou unto us all that the LORD our God shall speak unto
thee; and we wi, and do it.

5:28 And the LORD heard the voice of your words, when ye
me; and the LORD said unto me, I have heard the voice of the words ofple, which they have spoken unto thee: they have well said all
that thoken.

5:29 O that there were such an heart in them, that they would fd keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them,
aneir children for ever!  5:30 Go say to them, Get you into
your tents as for thee, stand thou here by me, and I will speak unto
thee all the dments, and the statutes, and the judgments, which
thou shalt teach ththey may do them in the land which I give
them to possess it.

5:32 Yeerve to do therefore as the LORD your God hath
commanded you: ye shallaside to the right hand or to the
left.

5:33 Ye shall walk in all theh the LORD your God hath
commanded you, that ye may live, and that it l with you, and
that ye may prolong your days in the land which ye sha.

6:1 Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments LORD your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them
in the lar ye go to possess it: 6:2 That thou mightest fear
the LORD thy God, t his statutes and his commandments, which
I command thee, thou, and th thy son’s son, all the days of
thy life; and that thy days may be p
6:3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be
weee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the LORD God of
thy fathers ed thee, in the land that floweth with milk and
honey.

6:4 Hear, O IsORD our God is one LORD: 6:5 And thou shalt
love the LORD thy God with heart, and with all thy soul, and
with all thy might.

6:6 And these ch I command thee this day, shall be in thine
heart: 6:7 And thou shalem diligently unto thy children, and
shalt talk of them when thou sittne house, and when thou
walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, hou risest up.

6:8 And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine han
shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.

6:9 And thou shalt write the posts of thy house, and on thy
gates.

6:10 And it shall be, when ty God shall have brought thee
into the land which he sware unto thy faAbraham, to Isaac,
and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities,u
buildedst not, 6:11 And houses full of all good things, which thou
ft, and wells digged, which thou diggedst not, vineyards and
olive treethou plantedst not; when thou shalt have eaten and
be full; 6:12 Then st thou forget the LORD, which brought
thee forth out of the land of Erom the house of bondage.

6:13 Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God, and  and shalt swear
by his name.

6:14 Ye shall not go after other gods, s of the people which
are round about you; 6:15 (For the LORD thy God us God among
you) lest the anger of the LORD thy God be kindled againsd
destroy thee from off the face of the earth.

6:16 Ye shall not tempyour God, as ye tempted him in
Massah.

6:17 Ye shall diligently keep dments of the LORD your God,
and his testimonies, and his statutes, wh commanded thee.

6:18 And thou shalt do that which is right and good t of
the LORD: that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest go sess the good land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers.

6:19 To cashine enemies from before thee, as the LORD hath
spoken.

6:20 And whensketh thee in time to come, saying, What mean
the testimonies, and the and the judgments, which the LORD
our God hath commanded you?  6:21 Thalt say unto thy son, We
were Pharaoh’s bondmen in Egypt; and the Lt us out of Egypt
with a mighty hand: 6:22 And the LORD shewed signs a, great
and sore, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his householdur eyes: 6:23 And he brought us out from thence, that he might bring
uve us the land which he sware unto our fathers.

6:24 And the LORD comto do all these statutes, to fear the
LORD our God, for our good alwaymight preserve us alive, as
it is at this day.

6:25 And it shall be ousness, if we observe to do all these
commandments before the LORD oure hath commanded us.

7:1 When the LORD thy God shall bring thee into ither thou
goest to possess it, and hath cast out many nations before 
Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites,
izzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations
greater andhan thou; 7:2 And when the LORD thy God shall
deliver them before theet smite them, and utterly destroy
them; thou shalt make no covenant wior shew mercy unto them:
7:3 Neither shalt thou make marriages with thghter thou
shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou tan.

7:4 For they will turn away thy son from following me, that they m other gods: so will the anger of the LORD be kindled against
you, andhee suddenly.

7:5 But thus shall ye deal with them; ye shall destroy rs,
and break down their images, and cut down their groves, and burn tn images with fire.

7:6 For thou art an holy people unto the LORD thyLORD thy
God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, abople that are upon the face of the earth.

7:7 The LORD did not set his you, nor choose you, because ye
were more in number than any people; e the fewest of all
people: 7:8 But because the LORD loved you, and bewould keep
the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, hath the LORyou out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of
bondmhe hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.

7:9 Know therefore that the LORD th is God, the faithful God,
which keepeth covenant and mercy with them  him and keep his
commandments to a thousand generations; 7:10 And rep that
hate him to their face, to destroy them: he will not be slack tohateth him, he will repay him to his face.

7:11 Thou shalt therefore mmandments, and the statutes, and
the judgments, which I command thee o do them.

7:12 Wherefore it shall come to pass, if ye hearken to thets, and keep, and do them, that the LORD thy God shall keep
unto thee nt and the mercy which he sware unto thy fathers:
7:13 And he will lovd bless thee, and multiply thee: he will
also bless the fruit of thy whe fruit of thy land, thy corn,
and thy wine, and thine oil, the increy kine, and the flocks
of thy sheep, in the land which he sware unto ts to give
thee.

7:14 Thou shalt be blessed above all people: there sh male
or female barren among you, or among your cattle.

7:15 And the take away from thee all sickness, and will put
none of the evil diseas, which thou knowest, upon thee; but
will lay them upon all them that 

7:16 And thou shalt consume all the people which the LORD thy God
shliver thee; thine eye shall have no pity upon them: neither
shalt thou serve their gods; for that will be a snare unto thee.

7:17 If thou sn thine heart, These nations are more than I;
how can I dispossess thehou shalt not be afraid of them: but
shalt well remember what the LORDid unto Pharaoh, and unto
all Egypt; 7:19 The great temptations which  saw, and the
signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the str
arm, whereby the LORD thy God brought thee out: so shall the LORD thyto all the people of whom thou art afraid.

7:20 Moreover the LORD thysend the hornet among them, until
they that are left, and hide themselee, be destroyed.

7:21 Thou shalt not be affrighted at them: for the d is
among you, a mighty God and terrible.

7:22 And the LORD thy God t those nations before thee by
little and little: thou mayest not const once, lest the
beasts of the field increase upon thee.

7:23 But theod shall deliver them unto thee, and shall
destroy them with a mighty , until they be destroyed.

7:24 And he shall deliver their kings into, and thou shalt
destroy their name from under heaven: there shall no le to
stand before thee, until thou have destroyed them.

7:25 The gra of their gods shall ye burn with fire: thou
shalt not desire the silv that is on them, nor take it unto
thee, lest thou be snared therin: fn abomination to the LORD
thy God.

7:26 Neither shalt thou bring an ainto thine house, lest
thou be a cursed thing like it: but thou shalt test it, and
thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is a cursed thing.

8 commandments which I command thee this day shall ye
observe to do, thlive, and multiply, and go in and possess
the land which the LORD swarr fathers.

8:2 And thou shalt remember all the way which the LORD thyhee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to prove
now what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his
commandmen

8:3 And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee
w which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; that
he might mnow that man doth not live by bread only, but by
every word that proceof the mouth of the LORD doth man live.

8:4 Thy raiment waxed not oldthee, neither did thy foot swell,
these forty years.

8:5 Thou shalt a in thine heart, that, as a man chasteneth
his son, so the LORD thy Goneth thee.

8:6 Therefore thou shalt keep the commandments of the LORD to
walk in his ways, and to fear him.

8:7 For the LORD thy God bringinto a good land, a land of
brooks of water, of fountains and depths t out of valleys
and hills; 8:8 A land of wheat, and barley, and vines,rees,
and pomegranates; a land of oil olive, and honey; 8:9 A land whe shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack any thing
in whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou
mayest dig brass.

hou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the LORD
thy God foland which he hath given thee.

8:11 Beware that thou forget not the Ld, in not keeping his
commandments, and his judgments, and his statutecommand
thee this day: 8:12 Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, anlt goodly houses, and dwelt therein; 8:13 And when thy herds and
thy fiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and
all that thou hasltiplied; 8:14 Then thine heart be lifted up,
and thou forget the LORDwhich brought thee forth out of the
land of Egypt, from the house of b5 Who led thee through
that great and terrible wilderness, wherein werpents, and
scorpions, and drought, where there was no water; who brougorth water out of the rock of flint; 8:16 Who fed thee in the
wildernenna, which thy fathers knew not, that he might
humble thee, and that hove thee, to do thee good at thy
latter end; 8:17 And thou say in thiny power and the might
of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth.

8:18 Balt remember the LORD thy God: for it is he that
giveth thee power to h, that he may establish his covenant
which he sware unto thy fathers,his day.

8:19 And it shall be, if thou do at all forget the LORD thy walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify
agathis day that ye shall surely perish.

8:20 As the nations which the Lyeth before your face, so
shall ye perish; because ye would not be obe the voice of
the LORD your God.

9:1 Hear, O Israel: Thou art to passn this day, to go in to
possess nations greater and mightier than thyss great and
fenced up to heaven, 9:2 A people great and tall, the chilhe
Anakims, whom thou knowest, and of whom thou hast heard say, Who cafore the children of Anak!  9:3 Understand therefore this day,
that th God is he which goeth over before thee; as a
consuming fire he shall em, and he shall bring them down
before thy face: so shalt thou drive  and destroy them
quickly, as the LORD hath said unto thee.

9:4 Speak in thine heart, after that the LORD thy God hath
cast them out from be, saying, For my righteousness the LORD
hath brought me in to possess but for the wickedness of
these nations the LORD doth drive them out e thee.

9:5 Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of thinost thou go to possess their land: but for the wickedness of these
natORD thy God doth drive them out from before thee, and
that he may perfrd which the LORD sware unto thy fathers,
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

tand therefore, that the LORD thy God giveth thee not this
good land tit for thy righteousness; for thou art a
stiffnecked people.

9:7 Remeforget not, how thou provokedst the LORD thy God to
wrath in the wildem the day that thou didst depart out of
the land of Egypt, until ye cahis place, ye have been
rebellious against the LORD.

9:8 Also in Horeked the LORD to wrath, so that the LORD was
angry with you to have des.

9:9 When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone tables of the covenant which the LORD made with you, then I
abode inforty days and forty nights, I neither did eat
bread nor drink water: the LORD delivered unto me two tables
of stone written with the fingernd on them was written
according to all the words, which the LORD spaku in the mount
out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assemblyd it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights,
that the  me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the
covenant.

9:12 Anid unto me, Arise, get thee down quickly from
hence; for thy people whst brought forth out of Egypt have
corrupted themselves; they are quicaside out of the way
which I commanded them; they have made them a mol.

9:13 Furthermore the LORD spake unto me, saying, I have seen this
p, behold, it is a stiffnecked people: 9:14 Let me alone,
that I may de, and blot out their name from under heaven:
and I will make of thee aghtier and greater than they.

9:15 So I turned and came down from thend the mount burned
with fire: and the two tables of the covenant werewo hands.

9:16 And I looked, and, behold, ye had sinned against the Ld, and had made you a molten calf: ye had turned aside quickly out
of ich the LORD had commanded you.

9:17 And I took the two tables, and cut of my two hands, and
brake them before your eyes.

9:18 And I fell re the LORD, as at the first, forty days and
forty nights: I did neithad, nor drink water, because of all
your sins which ye sinned, in doin in the sight of the LORD,
to provoke him to anger.

9:19 For I was afhe anger and hot displeasure, wherewith the
LORD was wroth against youy you. But the LORD hearkened unto
me at that time also.

9:20 And the very angry with Aaron to have destroyed him: and
I prayed for Aaron ame time.

9:21 And I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and buth fire, and stamped it, and ground it very small, even until it was
adust: and I cast the dust thereof into the brook that
descended out of.

9:22 And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibrothhattaavah, ye
proORD to wrath.

9:23 Likewise when the LORD sent you from Kadeshbarnea, up
and possess the land which I have given you; then ye rebelled agaimandment of the LORD your God, and ye believed him not, nor
hearkened ice.

9:24 Ye have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that .

9:25 Thus I fell down before the LORD forty days and forty nights, down at the first; because the LORD had said he would destroy
you.

9:d therefore unto the LORD, and said, O Lord GOD, destroy
not thy peoplne inheritance, which thou hast redeemed through
thy greatness, which brought forth out of Egypt with a
mighty hand.

9:27 Remember thy servham, Isaac, and Jacob; look not unto
the stubbornness of this people, r wickedness, nor to their
sin: 9:28 Lest the land whence thou brought say, Because the
LORD was not able to bring them into the land which ed them,
and because he hated them, he hath brought them out to slay t wilderness.

9:29 Yet they are thy people and thine inheritance, whicughtest out by thy mighty power and by thy stretched out arm.

10:1 Ate the LORD said unto me, Hew thee two tables of stone
like unto the fime up unto me into the mount, and make thee
an ark of wood.

10:2 And te on the tables the words that were in the first
tables which thou br thou shalt put them in the ark.

10:3 And I made an ark of shittim wowed two tables of stone
like unto the first, and went up into the moun the two tables
in mine hand.

10:4 And he wrote on the tables, accord first writing, the
ten commandments, which the LORD spake unto you ine mount out of
the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and the LORD gave
them unto me.

10:5 And I turned myself and came down from the mount, and put the
tables in the ark which I had made; and there they be, as the LORD
commanded me.

10:6 And the children of Israel took their journey from Beeroth of the
children of Jaakan to Mosera: there Aaron died, and there he was
buried; and Eleazar his son ministeree priest’s office in his
stead.

10:7 From thence they journeyed unth; and from Gudgodah to
Jotbath, a land of rivers of waters.

10:8 At  the LORD separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the
ark of the covenantRD, to stand before the LORD to minister
unto him, and to bless in histo this day.

10:9 Wherefore Levi hath no part nor inheritance with hi
the LORD is his inheritance, according as the LORD thy God promised
h And I stayed in the mount, according to the first time, forty
days anghts; and the LORD hearkened unto me at that time
also, and the LORD westroy thee.

10:11 And the LORD said unto me, Arise, take thy journeythat they may go in and possess the land, which I sware unto
their fat to give unto them.

10:12 And now, Israel, what doth the LORD thy God thee, but
to fear the LORD thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to lnd to serve the LORD thy God with all thy heart and with all thy
soul, keep the commandments of the LORD, and his statutes,
which I command day for thy good?  10:14 Behold, the heaven
and the heaven of heavens D’s thy God, the earth also, with
all that therein is.

10:15 Only t a delight in thy fathers to love them, and he
chose their seed after  you above all people, as it is this
day.

10:16 Circumcise therefore in of your heart, and be no more
stiffnecked.

10:17 For the LORD yourd of gods, and Lord of lords, a great
God, a mighty, and a terrible, weth not persons, nor taketh
reward: 10:18 He doth execute the judgmenttherless and
widow, and loveth the stranger, in giving him food and ra0:19 Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the
land

10:20 Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God; him shalt thou serve, and to thou cleave, and swear by his name.

10:21 He is thy praise, and he ithat hath done for thee
these great and terrible things, which thine eseen.

10:22 Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten
and now the LORD thy God hath made thee as the stars of
heaven for mul1:1 Therefore thou shalt love the LORD thy God, and keep his charge,
aatutes, and his judgments, and his commandments, alway.

11:2 And knowday: for I speak not with your children which
have not known, and whic seen the chastisement of the LORD
your God, his greatness, his mightyd his stretched out arm,
11:3 And his miracles, and his acts, which hehe midst of
Egypt unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and unto all his land
what he did unto the army of Egypt, unto their horses, and to their
 how he made the water of the Red sea to overflow them as
they pursued, and how the LORD hath destroyed them unto this
day; 11:5 And what heyou in the wilderness, until ye came
into this place; 11:6 And what he Dathan and Abiram, the sons
of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earter mouth, and
swallowed them up, and their households, and their tentsthe
substance that was in their possession, in the midst of all Israel your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD which he
did.

11:e shall ye keep all the commandments which I command you
this day, thabe strong, and go in and possess the land,
whither ye go to possess it that ye may prolong your days in
the land, which the LORD sware unto rs to give unto them and
to their seed, a land that floweth with milk 
11:10 For the land, whither thou goest in to possess it, is not as thEgypt, from whence ye came out, where thou sowedst thy seed,
and waterth thy foot, as a garden of herbs: 11:11 But the
land, whither ye go tit, is a land of hills and valleys, and
drinketh water of the rain of 1:12 A land which the LORD thy
God careth for: the eyes of the LORD th always upon it, from
the beginning of the year even unto the end of t
11:13 And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently unto
ments which I command you this day, to love the LORD your
God, and to ith all your heart and with all your soul,
11:14 That I will give you f your land in his due season,
the first rain and the latter rain, thast gather in thy
corn, and thy wine, and thine oil.

11:15 And I will  in thy fields for thy cattle, that thou
mayest eat and be full.

11:1 to yourselves, that your heart be not deceived, and ye
turn aside, anher gods, and worship them; 11:17 And then the
LORD’s wrath be kindlt you, and he shut up the heaven, that
there be no rain, and that the d not her fruit; and lest ye
perish quickly from off the good land whiD giveth you.

11:18 Therefore shall ye lay up these my words in your in
your soul, and bind them for a sign upon your hand, that they may btlets between your eyes.

11:19 And ye shall teach them your children, of them when
thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by thn
thou liest down, and when thou risest up.

11:20 And thou shalt writ door posts of thine house,
and upon thy gates: 11:21 That your days multiplied, and the
days of your children, in the land which the LORD syour
fathers to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth.

11:2e shall diligently keep all these commandments which I
command you, too love the LORD your God, to walk in all his
ways, and to cleave unto  Then will the LORD drive out all
these nations from before you, and yssess greater nations
and mightier than yourselves.

11:24 Every placee soles of your feet shall tread shall be
yours: from the wilderness a from the river, the river
Euphrates, even unto the uttermost sea shalst be.

11:25 There shall no man be able to stand before you: for the God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all the
land tll tread upon, as he hath said unto you.

11:26 Behold, I set before yy a blessing and a curse; 11:27
A blessing, if ye obey the commandmentRD your God, which I
command you this day: 11:28 And a curse, if ye wiy the
commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside out of the waymmand you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have not
known.

it shall come to pass, when the LORD thy God hath brought
thee in untohither thou goest to possess it, that thou
shalt put the blessing uponerizim, and the curse upon mount
Ebal.

11:30 Are they not on the othedan, by the way where the sun
goeth down, in the land of the Canaaniteell in the
champaign over against Gilgal, beside the plains of Moreh? 
ye shall pass over Jordan to go in to possess the land which the LORDiveth you, and ye shall possess it, and dwell therein.

11:32 And ye sve to do all the statutes and judgments which
I set before you this daese are the statutes and judgments, which ye shall observe to
do in thhich the LORD God of thy fathers giveth thee to
possess it, all the da live upon the earth.

12:2 Ye shall utterly destroy all the places, we nations
which ye shall possess served their gods, upon the high moun
upon the hills, and under every green tree: 12:3 And ye shall
overthrltars, and break their pillars, and burn their groves
with fire; and yw down the graven images of their gods, and
destroy the names of them at place.

12:4 Ye shall not do so unto the LORD your God.

12:5 But ulace which the LORD your God shall choose out of
all your tribes to pu there, even unto his habitation shall
ye seek, and thither thou shalt:6 And thither ye shall bring
your burnt offerings, and your sacrificeur tithes, and heave
offerings of your hand, and your vows, and your ffferings,
and the firstlings of your herds and of your flocks: 12:7 An
shall eat before the LORD your God, and ye shall rejoice in all that
ur hand unto, ye and your households, wherein the LORD thy
God hath ble.

12:8 Ye shall not do after all the things that we do here this dayan whatsoever is right in his own eyes.

12:9 For ye are not as yet co rest and to the inheritance,
which the LORD your God giveth you.

12:n ye go over Jordan, and dwell in the land which the LORD
your God givo inherit, and when he giveth you rest from all
your enemies round abot ye dwell in safety; 12:11 Then there
shall be a place which the LORDd shall choose to cause his
name to dwell there; thither shall ye brin I command you;
your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes heave
offering of your hand, and all your choice vows which ye vow unRD: 12:12 And ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God, ye, and
your your daughters, and your menservants, and your
maidservants, and the L is within your gates; forasmuch as
he hath no part nor inheritance wi2:13 Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy burnt offerings in
e that thou seest: 12:14 But in the place which the LORD
shall choose iy tribes, there thou shalt offer thy burnt
offerings, and there thou sll that I command thee.

12:15 Notwithstanding thou mayest kill and ean all thy gates,
whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, according to the b the
LORD thy God which he hath given thee: the unclean and the clean hereof, as of the roebuck, and as of the hart.

12:16 Only ye shall noblood; ye shall pour it upon the earth
as water.

12:17 Thou mayest nogates the tithe of thy corn, or
of thy wine, or of thy oil, or the fir of thy herds or of thy
flock, nor any of thy vows which thou vowest, ewill
offerings, or heave offering of thine hand: 12:18 But thou must efore the LORD thy God in the place which the LORD thy God shall
choosd thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and
thy maidservant, vite that is within thy gates: and thou
shalt rejoice before the LORD  all that thou puttest thine
hands unto.

12:19 Take heed to thyself tforsake not the Levite as long as
thou livest upon the earth.

12:20 WRD thy God shall enlarge thy border, as he hath
promised thee, and thoy, I will eat flesh, because thy soul
longeth to eat flesh; thou mayesh, whatsoever thy soul
lusteth after.

12:21 If the place which the LO hath chosen to put his name
there be too far from thee, then thou sha thy herd and of
thy flock, which the LORD hath given thee, as I have thee,
and thou shalt eat in thy gates whatsoever thy soul lusteth afteEven as the roebuck and the hart is eaten, so thou shalt eat
them: thed the clean shall eat of them alike.

12:23 Only be sure that thou eatlood: for the blood is the
life; and thou mayest not eat the life with

12:24 Thou shalt not eat it; thou shalt pour it upon the earth as
wa5 Thou shalt not eat it; that it may go well with thee, and with
thy cfter thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in the
sight of the 6 Only thy holy things which thou hast, and thy vows, thou shalt
take,to the place which the LORD shall choose: 12:27 And
thou shalt offer tfferings, the flesh and the blood, upon
the altar of the LORD thy God:lood of thy sacrifices shall
be poured out upon the altar of the LORD nd thou shalt eat
the flesh.

12:28 Observe and hear all these words wand thee, that it
may go well with thee, and with thy children after ter, when
thou doest that which is good and right in the sight of the Ld.

12:29 When the LORD thy God shall cut off the nations from before
her thou goest to possess them, and thou succeedest them,
and dwellest land; 12:30 Take heed to thyself that thou be
not snared by followinger that they be destroyed from before
thee; and that thou enquire not eir gods, saying, How did
these nations serve their gods? even so willise.

12:31 Thou shalt not do so unto the LORD thy God: for every
abom the LORD, which he hateth, have they done unto their
gods; for even tand their daughters they have burnt in the
fire to their gods.

12:32 soever I command you, observe to do it: thou shalt
not add thereto, no from it.

13:1 If there arise among you a prophet, or a dreamer of driveth thee a sign or a wonder, 13:2 And the sign or the wonder come
toereof he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other
gods, which thot known, and let us serve them; 13:3 Thou
shalt not hearken unto the that prophet, or that dreamer of
dreams: for the LORD your God provethnow whether ye love the
LORD your God with all your heart and with all.

13:4 Ye shall walk after the LORD your God, and fear him, and keep ndments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleave
unto hAnd that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to
death; behath spoken to turn you away from the LORD your God,
which brought youe land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of
the house of bondage, to thru of the way which the LORD thy
God commanded thee to walk in. So shaltthe evil away from
the midst of thee.

13:6 If thy brother, the son ofr, or thy son, or thy
daughter, or the wife of thy bosom, or thy friens as thine
own soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve, which thou hast not known, thou, nor thy fathers; 13:7 Namely,
of ththe people which are round about you, nigh unto thee,
or far off from  the one end of the earth even unto the
other end of the earth; 13:8 Tot consent unto him, nor
hearken unto him; neither shall thine eye pitther shalt thou
spare, neither shalt thou conceal him: 13:9 But thou sy kill
him; thine hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, ands the hand of all the people.

13:10 And thou shalt stone him with stdie; because he
hath sought to thrust thee away from the LORD thy God,ought
thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.

13:11srael shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more any
such wickedness a among you.

13:12 If thou shalt hear say in one of thy cities, which y
God hath given thee to dwell there, saying, 13:13 Certain men, the
c Belial, are gone out from among you, and have withdrawn
the inhabitanir city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods,
which ye have not kno Then shalt thou enquire, and make
search, and ask diligently; and, bet be truth, and the thing
certain, that such abomination is wrought am3:15 Thou shalt
surely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edgord,
destroying it utterly, and all that is therein, and the cattle
thth the edge of the sword.

13:16 And thou shalt gather all the spoil othe midst of the
street thereof, and shalt burn with fire the city, anspoil
thereof every whit, for the LORD thy God: and it shall be an hea it shall not be built again.

13:17 And there shall cleave nought of  thing to thine hand:
that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of hind shew thee
mercy, and have compassion upon thee, and multiply thee, sworn unto thy fathers; 13:18 When thou shalt hearken to the voice of
hy God, to keep all his commandments which I command thee
this day, tohich is right in the eyes of the LORD thy God.

14:1 Ye are the childrLORD your God: ye shall not cut
yourselves, nor make any baldness betwes for the dead.

14:2 For thou art an holy people unto the LORD thy Ge LORD
hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above alons that are upon the earth.

14:3 Thou shalt not eat any abominable t4 These are the beasts which ye shall eat: the ox, the sheep, and
the  The hart, and the roebuck, and the fallow deer, and the
wild goat, anrg, and the wild ox, and the chamois.

14:6 And every beast that parte, and cleaveth the cleft
into two claws, and cheweth the cud among thehat ye shall
eat.

14:7 Nevertheless these ye shall not eat of them th cud, or
of them that divide the cloven hoof; as the camel, and the ha coney: for they chew the cud, but divide not the hoof; therefore
theyean unto you.

14:8 And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet c the
cud, it is unclean unto you: ye shall not eat of their flesh, norir dead carcase.

14:9 These ye shall eat of all that are in the water have
fins and scales shall ye eat: 14:10 And whatsoever hath not fins ye may not eat; it is unclean unto you.

14:11 Of all clean birds ye 

14:12 But these are they of which ye shall not eat: the eagle, and tge, and the ospray, 14:13 And the glede, and the kite, and the
vultureind, 14:14 And every raven after his kind, 14:15
And the owl, and the , and the cuckow, and the hawk after
his kind, 14:16 The little owl, at owl, and the swan, 14:17
And the pelican, and the gier eagle, and thant, 14:18 And the
stork, and the heron after her kind, and the lapwinbat.

14:19 And every creeping thing that flieth is unclean unto you:  not be eaten.

14:20 But of all clean fowls ye may eat.

14:21 Ye shat eat of anything that dieth of itself: thou shalt
give it unto the stranger that is in thy gates, that he may eat it; or
thou mayest sell it unto an alien: for thou art an holy people unto
the LORD thy God.

Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother’s milk.

14:22 Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that the
field bringeth forth year by year.

14:23 And thou shalt eat before the LORD thy God, in te which
he shall choose to place his name there, the tithe of thy cornine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herds and of thy
flochou mayest learn to fear the LORD thy God always.

14:24 And if the waong for thee, so that thou art not able
to carry it; or if the place bfrom thee, which the LORD thy
God shall choose to set his name there, RD thy God hath
blessed thee: 14:25 Then shalt thou turn it into moneyup
the money in thine hand, and shalt go unto the place which the LORDall choose: 14:26 And thou shalt bestow that money for
whatsoever thy eth after, for oxen, or for sheep, or for
wine, or for strong drink, ooever thy soul desireth: and
thou shalt eat there before the LORD thy ou shalt rejoice,
thou, and thine household, 14:27 And the Levite that thy
gates; thou shalt not forsake him; for he hath no part nor inheri thee.

14:28 At the end of three years thou shalt bring forth all thethine increase the same year, and shalt lay it up within thy gates:
14 Levite, (because he hath no part nor inheritance with
thee,) and the nd the fatherless, and the widow, which are
within thy gates, shall coall eat and be satisfied; that the
LORD thy God may bless thee in all f thine hand which thou
doest.

15:1 At the end of every seven years tmake a release.

15:2 And this is the manner of the release: Every crelendeth ought unto his neighbour shall release it; he shall not exact
neighbour, or of his brother; because it is called the
LORD’s releasf a foreigner thou mayest exact it again: but that which is
thine wither thine hand shall release; 15:4 Save when there
shall be no poor amor the LORD shall greatly bless thee in
the land which the LORD thy Godhee for an inheritance to
possess it: 15:5 Only if thou carefully hear the voice of the
LORD thy God, to observe to do all these commandmentommand
thee this day.

15:6 For the LORD thy God blesseth thee, as he hee: and thou
shalt lend unto many nations, but thou shalt not borrow;shalt reign over many nations, but they shall not reign over thee.

15e be among you a poor man of one of thy brethren within
any of thy gatand which the LORD thy God giveth thee, thou
shalt not harden thine hehut thine hand from thy poor
brother: 15:8 But thou shalt open thine hnto him, and shalt
surely lend him sufficient for his need, in that whwanteth.

15:9 Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart,he seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and thine eye be
evithy poor brother, and thou givest him nought; and he cry
unto the LORDhee, and it be sin unto thee.

15:10 Thou shalt surely give him, and t shall not be grieved
when thou givest unto him: because that for this LORD thy
God shall bless thee in all thy works, and in all that thou ne hand unto.

15:11 For the poor shall never cease out of the land: tI
command thee, saying, Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy
broth poor, and to thy needy, in thy land.

15:12 And if thy brother, an Hean, or an Hebrew woman, be sold
unto thee, and serve thee six years; t seventh year thou
shalt let him go free from thee.

15:13 And when th him out free from thee, thou shalt not let
him go away empty: 15:14 T furnish him liberally out of thy
flock, and out of thy floor, and outnepress: of that
wherewith the LORD thy God hath blessed thee thou shao him.

15:15 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the ypt, and the LORD thy God redeemed thee: therefore I command thee
thisay.

15:16 And it shall be, if he say unto thee, I will not go away frecause he loveth thee and thine house, because he is well with
thee; 1thou shalt take an aul, and thrust it through his ear
unto the door, al be thy servant for ever. And also unto thy
maidservant thou shalt do
15:18 It shall not seem hard unto thee, when thou sendest him away
free; for he hath been worth a double hired servant to thee,
in serving ears: and the LORD thy God shall bless thee in
all that thou doest.

1he firstling males that come of thy herd and of thy flock
thou shalt so the LORD thy God: thou shalt do no work with
the firstling of thy bu shear the firstling of thy sheep.

15:20 Thou shalt eat it before theGod year by year in the
place which the LORD shall choose, thou and thehold.

15:21 And if there be any blemish therein, as if it be lame, o have any ill blemish, thou shalt not sacrifice it unto the LORD thy
G Thou shalt eat it within thy gates: the unclean and the clean
person  it alike, as the roebuck, and as the hart.

15:23 Only thou shalt notlood thereof; thou shalt pour it
upon the ground as water.

16:1 Obserth of Abib, and keep the passover unto the LORD
thy God: for in the mob the LORD thy God brought thee forth
out of Egypt by night.

16:2 Thoefore sacrifice the passover unto the LORD thy
God, of the flock and t the place which the LORD shall
choose to place his name there.

16:3 eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shalt thou
eat unleavened brth, even the bread of affliction; for thou
camest forth out of the lan in haste: that thou mayest
remember the day when thou camest forth ouand of Egypt all
the days of thy life.

16:4 And there shall be no lead seen with thee in all thy
coast seven days; neither shall there any he flesh, which
thou sacrificedst the first day at even, remain all ni the
morning.

16:5 Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover within any tes,
which the LORD thy God giveth thee: 16:6 But at the place which ty God shall choose to place his name in, there thou shalt
sacrifice th at even, at the going down of the sun, at the
season that thou camest of Egypt.

16:7 And thou shalt roast and eat it in the place which thy
God shall choose: and thou shalt turn in the morning, and go unto th16:8 Six days thou shalt eat unleavened bread: and on the seventh day
 solemn assembly to the LORD thy God: thou shalt do no work
therein.

n weeks shalt thou number unto thee: begin to number the
seven weeks ftime as thou beginnest to put the sickle to the
corn.

16:10 And thou  the feast of weeks unto the LORD thy God
with a tribute of a freewillf thine hand, which thou shalt
give unto the LORD thy God, according a thy God hath blessed
thee: 16:11 And thou shalt rejoice before the LO, thou, and
thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maiand the Levite that is within thy gates, and the stranger, and the
fatnd the widow, that are among you, in the place which the
LORD thy God  to place his name there.

16:12 And thou shalt remember that thou wasn in Egypt: and
thou shalt observe and do these statutes.

16:13 Thou rve the feast of tabernacles seven days, after
that thou hast gatheredn and thy wine: 16:14 And thou shalt
rejoice in thy feast, thou, and td thy daughter, and thy
manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levitanger, and the
fatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.

n days shalt thou keep a solemn feast unto the LORD thy God
in the plahe LORD shall choose: because the LORD thy God
shall bless thee in allrease, and in all the works of thine
hands, therefore thou shalt surel

16:16 Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before the LO in the place which he shall choose; in the feast of unleavened
bread,e feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: and
they shall not re the LORD empty: 16:17 Every man shall
give as he is able, accordingessing of the LORD thy God
which he hath given thee.

16:18 Judges and shalt thou make thee in all thy gates, which
the LORD thy God giveth oughout thy tribes: and they shall
judge the people with just judgmentou shalt not wrest judgment; thou shalt not respect persons,
neither t for a gift doth blind the eyes of the wise, and
pervert the words of us.

16:20 That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, that thou
, and inherit the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

16:21 Thout plant thee a grove of any trees near unto the
altar of the LORD thy  thou shalt make thee.

16:22 Neither shalt thou set thee up any imagee LORD thy God
hateth.

17:1 Thou shalt not sacrifice unto the LORD thbullock, or
sheep, wherein is blemish, or any evilfavouredness: for thomination unto the LORD thy God.

17:2 If there be found among you, wi thy gates which the
LORD thy God giveth thee, man or woman, that hathickedness
in the sight of the LORD thy God, in transgressing his coven
And hath gone and served other gods, and worshipped them, either the
on, or any of the host of heaven, which I have not
commanded; 17:4 Andd thee, and thou hast heard of it, and
enquired diligently, and, beholrue, and the thing certain,
that such abomination is wrought in Israeln shalt thou bring
forth that man or that woman, which have committed d thing,
unto thy gates, even that man or that woman, and shalt stone stones, till they die.

17:6 At the mouth of two witnesses, or three wshall he that
is worthy of death be put to death; but at the mouth of ll not be put to death.

17:7 The hands of the witnesses shall be firsto put him to
death, and afterward the hands of all the people. So tho evil away from among you.

17:8 If there arise a matter too hard for udgment, between
blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between s stroke,
being matters of controversy within thy gates: then shalt thond get thee up into the place which the LORD thy God shall choose;
17:shalt come unto the priests the Levites, and unto the
judge that shallse days, and enquire; and they shall shew
thee the sentence of judgmenAnd thou shalt do according to
the sentence, which they of that place e LORD shall choose
shall shew thee; and thou shalt observe to do accoll that
they inform thee: 17:11 According to the sentence of the law wshall teach thee, and according to the judgment which they shall
tell  shalt do: thou shalt not decline from the sentence
which they shall sto the right hand, nor to the left.

17:12 And the man that will do prly, and will not hearken
unto the priest that standeth to minister thethe LORD thy
God, or unto the judge, even that man shall die: and thou
away the evil from Israel.

17:13 And all the people shall hear, and do no more
presumptuously.

17:14 When thou art come unto the land whiD thy God giveth
thee, and shalt possess it, and shalt dwell therein, ay, I
will set a king over me, like as all the nations that are about Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the LORD thy
God se: one from among thy brethren shalt thou set king over
thee: thou mayt a stranger over thee, which is not thy
brother.

17:16 But he shall ly horses to himself, nor cause the
people to return to Egypt, to the  should multiply horses:
forasmuch as the LORD hath said unto you, Ye ceforth return
no more that way.

17:17 Neither shall he multiply wiveelf, that his heart turn
not away: neither shall he greatly multiply tsilver and
gold.

17:18 And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throkingdom,
that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book out of ts before the priests the Levites: 17:19 And it shall be with him, and
read therein all the days of his life: that he may learn to
fear the L, to keep all the words of this law and these
statutes, to do them: 17is heart be not lifted up above his
brethren, and that he turn not asi commandment, to the
right hand, or to the left: to the end that he ma his days in
his kingdom, he, and his children, in the midst of Israel priests the Levites, and all the tribe of Levi, shall have no
part noe with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of the
LORD made by fire, eritance.

18:2 Therefore shall they have no inheritance among their bhe LORD is their inheritance, as he hath said unto them.

18:3 And thi the priest’s due from the people, from them
that offer a sacrifice,t be ox or sheep; and they shall give
unto the priest the shoulder, ancheeks, and the maw.

18:4 The firstfruit also of thy corn, of thy winthine oil,
and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give hFor the LORD thy God hath chosen him out of all thy tribes, to
stand t in the name of the LORD, him and his sons for ever.

18:6 And if a Lefrom any of thy gates out of all Israel,
where he sojourned, and come he desire of his mind unto the
place which the LORD shall choose; 18:7all minister in the
name of the LORD his God, as all his brethren the  which
stand there before the LORD.

18:8 They shall have like portioneside that which cometh of
the sale of his patrimony.

18:9 When thou to the land which the LORD thy God giveth
thee, thou shalt not learn t the abominations of those
nations.

18:10 There shall not be found amny one that maketh his son
or his daughter to pass through the fire, oth divination, or
an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch.

harmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard,
or a necrom:12 For all that do these things are an abomination unto the LORD:
andf these abominations the LORD thy God doth drive them out
from before :13 Thou shalt be perfect with the LORD thy God.

18:14 For these natiu shalt possess, hearkened unto
observers of times, and unto diviners: thee, the LORD thy
God hath not suffered thee so to do.

18:15 The LOod will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the
midst of thee, of thy brke unto me; unto him ye shall
hearken; 18:16 According to all that tho of the LORD thy
God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let r again
the voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fie, that I die not.

18:17 And the LORD said unto me, They have well spwhich they
have spoken.

18:18 I will raise them up a Prophet from amorethren, like
unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth; and he shunto
them all that I shall command him.

18:19 And it shall come to pahosoever will not hearken unto
my words which he shall speak in my namrequire it of him.

18:20 But the prophet, which shall presume to spean my name,
which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speame of other gods, even that prophet shall die.

18:21 And if thou say eart, How shall we know the word which
the LORD hath not spoken?  18:2ophet speaketh in the name
of the LORD, if the thing follow not, nor cs, that is the
thing which the LORD hath not spoken, but the prophet h it
presumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him.

19:1 When the LOd hath cut off the nations, whose land the
LORD thy God giveth thee, acceedest them, and dwellest in
their cities, and in their houses; 19:2t separate three
cities for thee in the midst of thy land, which the Ld
giveth thee to possess it.

19:3 Thou shalt prepare thee a way, and e coasts of thy land,
which the LORD thy God giveth thee to inherit, i parts, that
every slayer may flee thither.

19:4 And this is the caseayer, which shall flee thither,
that he may live: Whoso killeth his nenorantly, whom he
hated not in time past; 19:5 As when a man goeth int with
his neighbour to hew wood, and his hand fetcheth a stroke with tcut down the tree, and the head slippeth from the helve, and
lighteth eighbour, that he die; he shall flee unto one of
those cities, and livt the avenger of the blood pursue the
slayer, while his heart is hot, ke him, because the way is
long, and slay him; whereas he was not wort, inasmuch as he
hated him not in time past.

19:7 Wherefore I commandng, Thou shalt separate three
cities for thee.

19:8 And if the LORD trge thy coast, as he hath sworn unto
thy fathers, and give thee all thch he promised to give unto
thy fathers; 19:9 If thou shalt keep all tdments to do
them, which I command thee this day, to love the LORD thyto
walk ever in his ways; then shalt thou add three cities more for th these three: 19:10 That innocent blood be not shed in thy land,
whichy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and so blood be
upon thee.

19:1y man hate his neighbour, and lie in wait for him, and
rise up againstmite him mortally that he die, and fleeth
into one of these cities: 19 elders of his city shall send
and fetch him thence, and deliver him ind of the avenger of
blood, that he may die.

19:13 Thine eye shall no, but thou shalt put away the guilt
of innocent blood from Israel, thait may go well with thee.

19:14 Thou shalt not remove thy neighbours landmark, which they of
old time have set in thine inheritance, which thou shalt inherit in
the land that the LORD thy God giveth thee to possess it.

19:15 One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity, or
for any sin, in any sin that he sinneth: at the mouth of to
witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be
e

19:16 If a false witness rise up against any man to testify against
ich is wrong; 19:17 Then both the men, between whom the
controversy istand before the LORD, before the priests and
the judges, which shall bdays; 19:18 And the judges shall
make diligent inquisition: and, behole witness be a false
witness, and hath testified falsely against his b:19 Then
shall ye do unto him, as he had thought to have done unto hiso shalt thou put the evil away from among you.

19:20 And those which ll hear, and fear, and shall
henceforth commit no more any such evil a
19:21 And thine eye shall not pity; but life shall go for life, eye
ftooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.

20:1 When thou goest out to battst thine enemies, and seest
horses, and chariots, and a people more the not afraid of
them: for the LORD thy God is with thee, which broughtut of
the land of Egypt.

20:2 And it shall be, when ye are come nigh attle, that the
priest shall approach and speak unto the people, 20:3 say
unto them, Hear, O Israel, ye approach this day unto battle againsmies: let not your hearts faint, fear not, and do not tremble,
neitherfied because of them; 20:4 For the LORD your God is
he that goeth withight for you against your enemies, to save
you.

20:5 And the officersak unto the people, saying, What man is
there that hath built a new hoath not dedicated it? let him
go and return to his house, lest he die tle, and another man
dedicate it.

20:6 And what man is he that hath pineyard, and hath not yet
eaten of it? let him also go and return unto lest he die in
the battle, and another man eat of it.

20:7 And what re that hath betrothed a wife, and hath not
taken her? let him go and o his house, lest he die in the
battle, and another man take her.

20:officers shall speak further unto the people, and they
shall say, Whatre that is fearful and fainthearted? let him
go and return unto his hohis brethren’s heart faint as well
as his heart.

20:9 And it shall he officers have made an end of speaking
unto the people that they shaptains of the armies to lead
the people.

20:10 When thou comest nigh  to fight against it, then
proclaim peace unto it.

20:11 And it shall make thee answer of peace, and open unto
thee, then it shall be, thateople that is found therein
shall be tributaries unto thee, and they shee.

20:12 And if it will make no peace with thee, but will make war
e, then thou shalt besiege it: 20:13 And when the LORD thy
God hath deinto thine hands, thou shalt smite every male
thereof with the edge of: 20:14 But the women, and the
little ones, and the cattle, and all thhe city, even all the
spoil thereof, shalt thou take unto thyself; and eat the
spoil of thine enemies, which the LORD thy God hath given thehus shalt thou do unto all the cities which are very far off
from thee not of the cities of these nations.

20:16 But of the cities of thesewhich the LORD thy God doth
give thee for an inheritance, thou shalt sothing that
breatheth: 20:17 But thou shalt utterly destroy them; namettites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, the
Hivithe Jebusites; as the LORD thy God hath commanded thee:
20:18 That theu not to do after all their abominations,
which they have done unto thso should ye sin against the
LORD your God.

20:19 When thou shalt besy a long time, in making war
against it to take it, thou shalt not destrees thereof by
forcing an axe against them: for thou mayest eat of tthou
shalt not cut them down (for the tree of the field is man’s lif them in the siege: 20:20 Only the trees which thou knowest that
they s for meat, thou shalt destroy and cut them down; and
thou shalt buildagainst the city that maketh war with thee,
until it be subdued.

21:1e found slain in the land which the LORD thy God giveth
thee to possesg in the field, and it be not known who hath
slain him: 21:2 Then thy d thy judges shall come forth, and
they shall measure unto the cities round about him that is
slain: 21:3 And it shall be, that the city whiunto the
slain man, even the elders of that city shall take an heifer,h not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in the yoke; 21:4
Ans of that city shall bring down the heifer unto a rough
valley, which eared nor sown, and shall strike off the
heifer’s neck there in the :5 And the priests the sons of
Levi shall come near; for them the LORDath chosen to
minister unto him, and to bless in the name of the LORD;ir
word shall every controversy and every stroke be tried: 21:6 And alrs of that city, that are next unto the slain man, shall wash
their hahe heifer that is beheaded in the valley: 21:7 And
they shall answer ar hands have not shed this blood, neither
have our eyes seen it.

21:8LORD, unto thy people Israel, whom thou hast
redeemed, and lay not innunto thy people of Israel’s
charge. And the blood shall be forgiven 9 So shalt thou put away the guilt of innocent blood from among
you, wshalt do that which is right in the sight of the LORD.

21:10 When thorth to war against thine enemies, and the LORD
thy God hath delivered hine hands, and thou hast taken them
captive, 21:11 And seest among tha beautiful woman, and
hast a desire unto her, that thou wouldest havey wife; 21:12
Then thou shalt bring her home to thine house, and she se her
head, and pare her nails; 21:13 And she shall put the raiment ofvity from off her, and shall remain in thine house, and bewail
her fatr mother a full month: and after that thou shalt go
in unto her, and bband, and she shall be thy wife.

21:14 And it shall be, if thou have  in her, then thou shalt
let her go whither she will; but thou shalt nr at all for
money, thou shalt not make merchandise of her, because thmbled her.

21:15 If a man have two wives, one beloved, and another hahey have born him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if
the son be hers that was hated: 21:16 Then it shall be, when
he maketh hierit that which he hath, that he may not make
the son of the beloved fefore the son of the hated, which is
indeed the firstborn: 21:17 But hknowledge the son of the
hated for the firstborn, by giving him a doub of all that he
hath: for he is the beginning of his strength; the rig
firstborn is his.

21:18 If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son,l not obey
the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and thhey have chastened him, will not hearken unto them: 21:19 Then shall
h and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto the
elders of and unto the gate of his place; 21:20 And they
shall say unto the eldeity, This our son is stubborn and
rebellious, he will not obey our voi a glutton, and a
drunkard.

21:21 And all the men of his city shall sth stones, that he
die: so shalt thou put evil away from among you; anael shall
hear, and fear.

21:22 And if a man have committed a sin worth, and he be to
be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree: 21:23 Hll not
remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt in any wise buryday; (for he that is hanged is accursed of God;) that thy land be
not which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.

22:1 Thou shaly brother’s ox or his sheep go astray, and
hide thyself from them: tin any case bring them again unto
thy brother.

22:2 And if thy brotheigh unto thee, or if thou know him
not, then thou shalt bring it unto  house, and it shall be
with thee until thy brother seek after it, andt restore it
to him again.

22:3 In like manner shalt thou do with hisd so shalt thou do
with his raiment; and with all lost thing of thy br which he
hath lost, and thou hast found, shalt thou do likewise: thout hide thyself.

22:4 Thou shalt not see thy brother’s ass or his oxn by the
way, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt surely help him t up again.

22:5 The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto aher shall a man put on a woman’s garment: for all that do so are
abonto the LORD thy God.

22:6 If a bird’s nest chance to be before theay in any tree,
or on the ground, whether they be young ones, or eggs,am
sitting upon the young, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the de young: 22:7 But thou shalt in any wise let the dam go, and
take the hee; that it may be well with thee, and that thou
mayest prolong thy d When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt make a battlement
forhat thou bring not blood upon thine house, if any man
fall from thenceu shalt not sow thy vineyard with divers seeds: lest the fruit
of thy thou hast sown, and the fruit of thy vineyard, be
defiled.

22:10 Thou plow with an ox and an ass together.

22:11 Thou shalt not wear a garvers sorts, as of woollen and
linen together.

22:12 Thou shalt make ts upon the four quarters of thy
vesture, wherewith thou coverest thyseIf any man take a wife, and go in unto her, and hate her, 22:14
And gins of speech against her, and bring up an evil name
upon her, and say,woman, and when I came to her, I found
her not a maid: 22:15 Then shalher of the damsel, and her
mother, take and bring forth the tokens of ’s virginity unto
the elders of the city in the gate: 22:16 And the  father
shall say unto the elders, I gave my daughter unto this man to he hateth her; 22:17 And, lo, he hath given occasions of speech
againying, I found not thy daughter a maid; and yet these
are the tokens ofr’s virginity. And they shall spread the
cloth before the elders of 
22:18 And the elders of that city shall take that man and chastise
hind they shall amerce him in an hundred shekels of silver,
and give thee father of the damsel, because he hath brought
up an evil name upon aIsrael: and she shall be his wife; he
may not put her away all his day But if this thing be true, and the tokens of virginity be not
found famsel: 22:21 Then they shall bring out the damsel to
the door of her fhouse, and the men of her city shall stone
her with stones that she di she hath wrought folly in
Israel, to play the whore in her father’so shalt thou put
evil away from among you.

22:22 If a man be found ly woman married to an husband, then
they shall both of them die, both tat lay with the woman, and
the woman: so shalt thou put away evil from22:23 If a damsel that is a virgin be betrothed unto an husband, and aher in the city, and lie with her; 22:24 Then ye shall bring
them both the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them with
stones that they damsel, because she cried not, being in the
city; and the man, becauseumbled his neighbours wife: so
thou shalt put away evil from among youut if a man find a betrothed damsel in the field, and the man
force hee with her: then the man only that lay with her shall
die.

22:26 But damsel thou shalt do nothing; there is in the
damsel no sin worthy of  as when a man riseth against his
neighbour, and slayeth him, even so tter: 22:27 For he found
her in the field, and the betrothed damsel crthere was none
to save her.

22:28 If a man find a damsel that is a vich is not betrothed,
and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they b2:29 Then
the man that lay with her shall give unto the damsel’s faty
shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife; because he hath humblemay not put her away all his days.

22:30 A man shall not take his fatfe, nor discover his
father’s skirt.

23:1 He that is wounded in ther hath his privy member cut
off, shall not enter into the congregationD.

23:2 A bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD; s tenth generation shall he not enter into the congregation of
the LORn Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of
the LOR their tenth generation shall they not enter into the
congregation of r ever: 23:4 Because they met you not with
bread and with water in the ye came forth out of Egypt; and
because they hired against thee Balaa of Beor of Pethor of
Mesopotamia, to curse thee.

23:5 Nevertheless thy God would not hearken unto Balaam; but
the LORD thy God turned the  a blessing unto thee, because
the LORD thy God loved thee.

23:6 Thout seek their peace nor their prosperity all thy days
for ever.

23:7 Tnot abhor an Edomite; for he is thy brother: thou
shalt not abhor an Ebecause thou wast a stranger in his land.

23:8 The children that are f them shall enter into the
congregation of the LORD in their third ge23:9 When the host goeth forth against thine enemies, then keep thee
fwicked thing.

23:10 If there be among you any man, that is not clean of
uncleanness that chanceth him by night, then shall he go abroad outp, he shall not come within the camp: 23:11 But it shall be,
when even on, he shall wash himself with water: and when the
sun is down, he shnto the camp again.

23:12 Thou shalt have a place also without the car thou
shalt go forth abroad: 23:13 And thou shalt have a paddle upon  and it shall be, when thou wilt ease thyself abroad, thou
shalt dig tand shalt turn back and cover that which cometh
from thee: 23:14 For thy God walketh in the midst of thy
camp, to deliver thee, and to give ies before thee;
therefore shall thy camp be holy: that he see no unclin
thee, and turn away from thee.

23:15 Thou shalt not deliver unto hthe servant which is
escaped from his master unto thee: 23:16 He shall thee,
even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of t, where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him.

23:17 There swhore of the daughters of Israel, nor a
sodomite of the sons of Israelhou shalt not bring the hire of a whore, or the price of a dog,
into t the LORD thy God for any vow: for even both these
are abomination untthy God.

23:19 Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury osury of victuals, usury of any thing that is lent upon usury: 23:20
Uner thou mayest lend upon usury; but unto thy brother thou
shalt not leury: that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all
that thou settest thi in the land whither thou goest to
possess it.

23:21 When thou shalt unto the LORD thy God, thou shalt not
slack to pay it: for the LORD thl surely require it of thee;
and it would be sin in thee.

23:22 But ilt forbear to vow, it shall be no sin in thee.

23:23 That which is gothy lips thou shalt keep and perform;
even a freewill offering, accordu hast vowed unto the LORD
thy God, which thou hast promised with thy :24 When thou comest into thy neighbours vineyard, then thou mayest
eahy fill at thine own pleasure; but thou shalt not put any
in thy vesseWhen thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbour, then
thou ma the ears with thine hand; but thou shalt not move a
sickle unto thy n standing corn.

24:1 When a man hath taken a wife, and married her, ae to
pass that she find no favour in his eyes, because he hath found sanness in her: then let him write her a bill of divorcement, and
give  hand, and send her out of his house.

24:2 And when she is departed ohouse, she may go and be
another man’s wife.

24:3 And if the latterate her, and write her a bill of
divorcement, and giveth it in her haneth her out of his
house; or if the latter husband die, which took her wife;
24:4 Her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination
before and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which the
LORD thy God giver an inheritance.

24:5 When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not war,
neither shall he be charged with any business: but he shall be fe one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken.

24:6 No  take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge:
for he taketh a manto pledge.

24:7 If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of thef
Israel, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him; then that thiie; and thou shalt put evil away from among you.

24:8 Take heed in thf leprosy, that thou observe diligently,
and do according to all that ts the Levites shall teach you:
as I commanded them, so ye shall obser
24:9 Remember what the LORD thy God did unto Miriam by the way, afterere come forth out of Egypt.

24:10 When thou dost lend thy brother anthou shalt not go
into his house to fetch his pledge.

24:11 Thou shalnd abroad, and the man to whom thou dost lend
shall bring out the pledge abroad unto thee.

24:12 And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge:
24:13 In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge again when the sun
goeth down, that he may sleep in his own raiment, and bless thee: and
it shall be righteousness unto thee before the LORD thy God.

24:14 Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant that is poody,
whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy strangers that are in thyin thy gates: 24:15 At his day thou shalt give him his hire,
neither sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his
heart upon it: lesainst thee unto the LORD, and it be sin
unto thee.

24:16 The fathers be put to death for the children, neither
shall the children be put to the fathers: every man shall be
put to death for his own sin.

24:17  not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the
fatherless; nor ow’s raiment to pledge: 24:18 But thou shalt
remember that thou wastin Egypt, and the LORD thy God
redeemed thee thence: therefore I comma thing.

24:19 When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and t a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it
shall stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow: that
the LORD thy Godthee in all the work of thine hands.

24:20 When thou beatest thine olthou shalt not go over the
boughs again: it shall be for the stranger,therless, and
for the widow.

24:21 When thou gatherest the grapes of rd, thou shalt not
glean it afterward: it shall be for the stranger, ferless,
and for the widow.

24:22 And thou shalt remember that thou wan in the land of
Egypt: therefore I command thee to do this thing.

25e be a controversy between men, and they come unto
judgment, that the judge them; then they shall justify the
righteous, and condemn the wicAnd it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that
the juause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his
face, according to hby a certain number.

25:3 Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceif he should
exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then er
should seem vile unto thee.

25:4 Thou shalt not muzzle the ox whenth out the corn.

25:5 If brethren dwell together, and one of them dieve no
child, the wife of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranhusband’s brother shall go in unto her, and take her to him to
wife,m the duty of an husband’s brother unto her.

25:6 And it shall be, irstborn which she beareth shall
succeed in the name of his brother whd, that his name be not
put out of Israel.

25:7 And if the man like ne his brother’s wife, then let his
brother’s wife go up to the gat elders, and say, My
husband’s brother refuseth to raise up unto hisname in
Israel, he will not perform the duty of my husband’s brotherhen the elders of his city shall call him, and speak unto him:
and if o it, and say, I like not to take her; 25:9 Then
shall his brother’s unto him in the presence of the elders,
and loose his shoe from off hnd spit in his face, and shall
answer and say, So shall it be done untn that will not build
up his brother’s house.

25:10 And his name shled in Israel, The house of him that
hath his shoe loosed.

25:11 Whenve together one with another, and the wife of the
one draweth near forher husband out of the hand of him
that smiteth him, and putteth forth and taketh him by the
secrets: 25:12 Then thou shalt cut off her hand shall not
pity her.

25:13 Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers weigat and a
small.

25:14 Thou shalt not have in thine house divers measuat and
a small.

25:15 But thou shalt have a perfect and just weight, nd
just measure shalt thou have: that thy days may be lengthened in thch the LORD thy God giveth thee.

25:16 For all that do such things, aat do unrighteously, are
an abomination unto the LORD thy God.

25:17 hat Amalek did unto thee by the way, when ye were come
forth out of Eg How he met thee by the way, and smote the
hindmost of thee, even all feeble behind thee, when thou
wast faint and weary; and he feared not 19 Therefore it shall be, when the LORD thy God hath given thee
rest fine enemies round about, in the land which the LORD
thy God giveth thenheritance to possess it, that thou shalt
blot out the remembrance of m under heaven; thou shalt not
forget it.

26:1 And it shall be, when come in unto the land which the
LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheri possessest it, and
dwellest therein; 26:2 That thou shalt take of thell the
fruit of the earth, which thou shalt bring of thy land that theGod giveth thee, and shalt put it in a basket, and shalt go unto
the ph the LORD thy God shall choose to place his name there.

26:3 And tho unto the priest that shall be in those days,
and say unto him, I profay unto the LORD thy God, that I am
come unto the country which the LOnto our fathers for to
give us.

26:4 And the priest shall take the ba thine hand, and set
it down before the altar of the LORD thy God.

26u shalt speak and say before the LORD thy God, A Syrian
ready to perisather, and he went down into Egypt, and
sojourned there with a few, an a nation, great, mighty,
and populous: 26:6 And the Egyptians evil ennd afflicted
us, and laid upon us hard bondage: 26:7 And when we criedORD God of our fathers, the LORD heard our voice, and looked on our
afd our labour, and our oppression: 26:8 And the LORD
brought us forth o with a mighty hand, and with an
outstretched arm, and with great terrd with signs, and
with wonders: 26:9 And he hath brought us into this  hath
given us this land, even a land that floweth with milk and honeyd now, behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land,
which thou,t given me. And thou shalt set it before the
LORD thy God, and worship LORD thy God: 26:11 And thou
shalt rejoice in every good thing which thy God hath given
unto thee, and unto thine house, thou, and the Levie
stranger that is among you.

26:12 When thou hast made an end of tithe tithes of thine
increase the third year, which is the year of tithist given
it unto the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widy may eat within thy gates, and be filled; 26:13 Then thou shalt
say bORD thy God, I have brought away the hallowed things
out of mine househave given them unto the Levite, and unto
the stranger, to the fatherlthe widow, according to all
thy commandments which thou hast commanded not transgressed
thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them.

26not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I taken
away ought therunclean use, nor given ought thereof for
the dead: but I have hearkeneice of the LORD my God, and
have done according to all that thou hast .

26:15 Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thrael, and the land which thou hast given us, as thou swarest
unto our land that floweth with milk and honey.

26:16 This day the LORD thy Gonded thee to do these
statutes and judgments: thou shalt therefore keeem with all
thine heart, and with all thy soul.

26:17 Thou hast avoucD this day to be thy God, and to walk
in his ways, and to keep his sta his commandments, and his
judgments, and to hearken unto his voice: 2e LORD hath
avouched thee this day to be his peculiar people, as he ha
thee, and that thou shouldest keep all his commandments; 26:19 And tohigh above all nations which he hath made, in praise, and in
name, and and that thou mayest be an holy people unto the
LORD thy God, as he h

27:1 And Moses with the elders of Israel commanded the people, sayin the commandments which I command you this day.

27:2 And it shall be when ye shall pass over Jordan unto
the land which the LORD thy God githat thou shalt set thee
up great stones, and plaister them with plaisd thou shalt
write upon them all the words of this law, when thou art 
that thou mayest go in unto the land which the LORD thy God giveth
thhat floweth with milk and honey; as the LORD God of thy
fathers hath pe.

27:4 Therefore it shall be when ye be gone over Jordan, that ye shhese stones, which I command you this day, in mount Ebal, and
thou shaem with plaister.

27:5 And there shalt thou build an altar unto the L an
altar of stones: thou shalt not lift up any iron tool upon them.

alt build the altar of the LORD thy God of whole stones:
and thou shalnt offerings thereon unto the LORD thy God:
27:7 And thou shalt offer ngs, and shalt eat there, and
rejoice before the LORD thy God.

27:8 A write upon the stones all the words of this law
very plainly.

27:9 Ad the priests the Levites spake unto all Israel,
saying, Take heed, an Israel; this day thou art become the
people of the LORD thy God.

27:lt therefore obey the voice of the LORD thy God, and do
his commandmenstatutes, which I command thee this day.

27:11 And Moses charged the same day, saying, 27:12 These
shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless , when ye are come
over Jordan; Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issacseph,
and Benjamin: 27:13 And these shall stand upon mount Ebal to cur Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.

27:14 And the Leviteak, and say unto all the men of Israel
with a loud voice, 27:15 Cursedn that maketh any graven or
molten image, an abomination unto the LORDof the hands of
the craftsman, and putteth it in a secret place. And aall answer and say, Amen.

27:16 Cursed be he that setteth light by hir his mother. And
all the people shall say, Amen.

27:17 Cursed be he eth his neighbours landmark. And all the
people shall say, Amen.

27:1e he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way. And
all the peopl Amen.

27:19 Cursed be he that perverteth the judgment of the strangess, and widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:20 Cursed be he with his father’s wife; because he
uncovereth his father’s skirt.he people shall say, Amen.

27:21 Cursed be he that lieth with any mant. And all the
people shall say, Amen.

27:22 Cursed be he that lieth ster, the daughter of his
father, or the daughter of his mother. And aple shall say,
Amen.

27:23 Cursed be he that lieth with his mother inall the
people shall say, Amen.

27:24 Cursed be he that smiteth his ncretly. And all the
people shall say, Amen.

27:25 Cursed be he that t to slay an innocent person. And
all the people shall say, Amen.

27:2 he that confirmeth not all the words of this law to do
them. And all  shall say, Amen.

28:1 And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearkently unto
the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe and to do all hists which I command thee this day, that the LORD thy God will
set thee e all nations of the earth: 28:2 And all these
blessings shall come onvertake thee, if thou shalt hearken
unto the voice of the LORD thy Godssed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in
the fieldssed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy
ground, and of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and the
flocks of thy sheep.
ed shall be thy basket and thy store.

28:6 Blessed shalt thou be whenst in, and blessed shalt thou
be when thou goest out.

28:7 The LORD shine enemies that rise up against thee to
be smitten before thy face: ome out against thee one way,
and flee before thee seven ways.

28:8 Tl command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses,
and in all that t thine hand unto; and he shall bless thee
in the land which the LORD th thee.

28:9 The LORD shall establish thee an holy people unto himselh sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the LORD
thyalk in his ways.

28:10 And all people of the earth shall see that thod by
the name of the LORD; and they shall be afraid of thee.

28:11 Anhall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of
thy body, and in thhy cattle, and in the fruit of thy
ground, in the land which the LORD thy fathers to give
thee.

28:12 The LORD shall open unto thee his goo the heaven to
give the rain unto thy land in his season, and to blessrk
of thine hand: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shalow.

28:13 And the LORD shall make thee the head, and not the tail; ant be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thou
hearken uandments of the LORD thy God, which I command
thee this day, to observo them: 28:14 And thou shalt not go
aside from any of the words which hee this day, to the
right hand, or to the left, to go after other godthem.

28:15 But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto f the LORD thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and
his statI command thee this day; that all these curses
shall come upon thee, a thee: 28:16 Cursed shalt thou be in
the city, and cursed shalt thou bld.

28:17 Cursed shall be thy basket and thy store.

28:18 Cursed shafruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy
land, the increase of thy kineflocks of thy sheep.

28:19 Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, shalt thou
be when thou goest out.

28:20 The LORD shall send upon theation, and rebuke, in
all that thou settest thine hand unto for to do, be
destroyed, and until thou perish quickly; because of the wickednesings, whereby thou hast forsaken me.

28:21 The LORD shall make the peave unto thee, until he
have consumed thee from off the land, whither o possess
it.

28:22 The LORD shall smite thee with a consumption, andr,
and with an inflammation, and with an extreme burning, and with the with blasting, and with mildew; and they shall pursue thee
until thou:23 And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the
earth thee shall be iron.

28:24 The LORD shall make the rain of thy land pdust: from
heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyehe LORD shall cause thee to be smitten before thine enemies:
thou shalne way against them, and flee seven ways before
them: and shalt be remll the kingdoms of the earth.

28:26 And thy carcase shall be meat untof the air, and
unto the beasts of the earth, and no man shall fray th8:27 The LORD will smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with the
emwith the scab, and with the itch, whereof thou canst not
be healed.

2ORD shall smite thee with madness, and blindness, and
astonishment of 9 And thou shalt grope at noonday, as the
blind gropeth in darkness, alt not prosper in thy ways: and
thou shalt be only oppressed and spoil no man shall
save thee.

28:30 Thou shalt betroth a wife, and anotherth her:
thou shalt build an house, and thou shalt not dwell therein: t plant a vineyard, and shalt not gather the grapes thereof.

28:31 Thislain before thine eyes, and thou shalt not
eat thereof: thine ass shalently taken away from before thy
face, and shall not be restored to theep shall be given unto
thine enemies, and thou shalt have none to re.

28:32 Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given unto another people eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day
long; andll be no might in thine hand.

28:33 The fruit of thy land, and all th shall a nation which
thou knowest not eat up; and thou shalt be only nd crushed
alway: 28:34 So that thou shalt be mad for the sight of thich thou shalt see.

28:35 The LORD shall smite thee in the knees, and s, with a
sore botch that cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot top of thy head.

28:36 The LORD shall bring thee, and thy king which t set
over thee, unto a nation which neither thou nor thy fathers havend there shalt thou serve other gods, wood and stone.

28:37 And thou me an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword,
among all nations whither shall lead thee.

28:38 Thou shalt carry much seed out into the fieldlt gather
but little in; for the locust shall consume it.

28:39 Thou nt vineyards, and dress them, but shalt neither
drink of the wine, nore grapes; for the worms shall eat
them.

28:40 Thou shalt have olive tughout all thy coasts, but thou
shalt not anoint thyself with the oil;e olive shall cast his
fruit.

28:41 Thou shalt beget sons and daughteou shalt not enjoy
them; for they shall go into captivity.

28:42 All  and fruit of thy land shall the locust consume.

28:43 The stranger tthin thee shall get up above thee very
high; and thou shalt come down 

28:44 He shall lend to thee, and thou shalt not lend to him: he shalead, and thou shalt be the tail.

28:45 Moreover all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursue
thee, and overtake thee, till thou be destroyed; because thou
hearkenedst not unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep his
commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee: 28:46 And they
shall be upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, and upon thy seed for
ever.

28:47 Because thou servedst not the LORD thy God with joyfulness, and
with gladness of heart, for the abundance  things; 28:48
Therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies which the LORDd
against thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in wanhings: and he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck, until he
have deee.

28:49 The LORD shall bring a nation against thee from far, from tthe earth, as swift as the eagle flieth; a nation whose tongue
thou shderstand; 28:50 A nation of fierce countenance, which
shall not regardn of the old, nor shew favour to the young:
28:51 And he shall eat thehy cattle, and the fruit of thy
land, until thou be destroyed: which anot leave thee either
corn, wine, or oil, or the increase of thy kine, of thy
sheep, until he have destroyed thee.

28:52 And he shall besie all thy gates, until thy high and
fenced walls come down, wherein tho, throughout all thy
land: and he shall besiege thee in all thy gates  all thy
land, which the LORD thy God hath given thee.

28:53 And thoufruit of thine own body, the flesh of thy
sons and of thy daughters, we LORD thy God hath given thee, in
the siege, and in the straitness, whine enemies shall
distress thee: 28:54 So that the man that is tenderou, and
very delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and twife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children which he
sha 28:55 So that he will not give to any of them of the
flesh of his chie shall eat: because he hath nothing left
him in the siege, and in thes, wherewith thine enemies shall
distress thee in all thy gates.

28:5delicate woman among you, which would not
adventure to set the sole ofupon the ground for delicateness
and tenderness, her eye shall be evile husband of her bosom,
and toward her son, and toward her daughter, 2oward her
young one that cometh out from between her feet, and toward ren which she shall bear: for she shall eat them for want of all
thingy in the siege and straitness, wherewith thine enemy
shall distress thgates.

28:58 If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this lawwritten in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and
fearful LORD THY GOD; 28:59 Then the LORD will make thy
plagues wonderful, andues of thy seed, even great plagues,
and of long continuance, and sores, and of long continuance.

28:60 Moreover he will bring upon thee alases of Egypt,
which thou wast afraid of; and they shall cleave unto t61 Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in
the his law, them will the LORD bring upon thee, until thou
be destroyed.
 ye shall be left few in number, whereas ye were as the stars
of heavetitude; because thou wouldest not obey the voice of
the LORD thy God.
 it shall come to pass, that as the LORD rejoiced over you to
do you gto multiply you; so the LORD will rejoice over you to
destroy you, andyou to nought; and ye shall be plucked from
off the land whither thou possess it.

28:64 And the LORD shall scatter thee among all people, fe
end of the earth even unto the other; and there thou shalt serve othhich neither thou nor thy fathers have known, even wood and
stone.

28ong these nations shalt thou find no ease, neither shall
the sole of tve rest: but the LORD shall give thee there a
trembling heart, and fais, and sorrow of mind: 28:66 And
thy life shall hang in doubt before thou shalt fear day and
night, and shalt have none assurance of thy lifIn the morning
thou shalt say, Would God it were even! and at even thoy,
Would God it were morning! for the fear of thine heart wherewith thear, and for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.

28:68 And hall bring thee into Egypt again with ships, by
the way whereof I spakthee, Thou shalt see it no more again:
and there ye shall be sold untoies for bondmen and
bondwomen, and no man shall buy you.

29:1 These ads of the covenant, which the LORD commanded
Moses to make with the chsrael in the land of Moab, beside
the covenant which he made with them

29:2 And Moses called unto all Israel, and said unto them, Ye have
sat the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt unto
Pharaoh, anhis servants, and unto all his land; 29:3 The
great temptations which  have seen, the signs, and those
great miracles: 29:4 Yet the LORD hatn you an heart to
perceive, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, unto th9:5 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothes
are old upon you, and thy shoe is not waxen old upon thy
foot.

29:6 Ye hen bread, neither have ye drunk wine or strong
drink: that ye might knam the LORD your God.

29:7 And when ye came unto this place, Sihon thHeshbon, and
Og the king of Bashan, came out against us unto battle, ae
them: 29:8 And we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance unbenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half tribe of Manasseh.

29:9 ore the words of this covenant, and do them, that ye
may prosper in ale do.

29:10 Ye stand this day all of you before the LORD your God; yo of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, with all the
men of I11 Your little ones, your wives, and thy stranger
that is in thy camp,ewer of thy wood unto the drawer of thy
water: 29:12 That thou shouldeenant with the LORD thy
God, and into his oath, which the LORD thy God with thee this
day: 29:13 That he may establish thee to day for a peomself, and that he may be unto thee a God, as he hath said unto
thee, hath sworn unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and
to Jacob.

29:1ith you only do I make this covenant and this oath;
29:15 But with himeth here with us this day before the LORD
our God, and also with him there with us this day: 29:16
(For ye know how we have dwelt in the lan; and how we came
through the nations which ye passed by; 29:17 And ye their
abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold,e among them:) 29:18 Lest there should be among you man, or woman,
or  tribe, whose heart turneth away this day from the LORD
our God, to go the gods of these nations; lest there should
be among you a root thatall and wormwood; 29:19 And it come
to pass, when he heareth the wordscurse, that he bless
himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace,walk in the
imagination of mine heart, to add drunkenness to thirst: 2ORD will not spare him, but then the anger of the LORD and his
jealouske against that man, and all the curses that are
written in this book upon him, and the LORD shall blot out
his name from under heaven.

29: LORD shall separate him unto evil out of all the tribes
of Israel, ac all the curses of the covenant that are
written in this book of the lthe generation to come
of your children that shall rise up after you, ranger that
shall come from a far land, shall say, when they see the pthat land, and the sicknesses which the LORD hath laid upon it; 29:23
he whole land thereof is brimstone, and salt, and burning,
that it is nor beareth, nor any grass groweth therein, like
the overthrow of Sodomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the
LORD overthrew in his anger, and ath: 29:24 Even all nations
shall say, Wherefore hath the LORD done this land? what
meaneth the heat of this great anger?  29:25 Then men shecause they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of their
fathere made with them when he brought them forth out of the
land of Egypt: or they went and served other gods, and
worshipped them, gods whom the, and whom he had not given
unto them: 29:27 And the anger of the LORDled against this
land, to bring upon it all the curses that are writte book:
29:28 And the LORD rooted them out of their land in anger, and  and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as
it is t
29:29 The secret things belong unto the LORD our God: but those thing revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that
we may do ords of this law.

30:1 And it shall come to pass, when all these thinme upon
thee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before theeshalt call them to mind among all the nations, whither the LORD
thy Goiven thee, 30:2 And shalt return unto the LORD thy God,
and shalt obeye according to all that I command thee this
day, thou and thy children thine heart, and with all thy
soul; 30:3 That then the LORD thy God why captivity, and
have compassion upon thee, and will return and gathem all
the nations, whither the LORD thy God hath scattered thee.

30:4f thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven,
from thence wiRD thy God gather thee, and from thence will he
fetch thee: 30:5 And ty God will bring thee into the land
which thy fathers possessed, and tpossess it; and he will do
thee good, and multiply thee above thy fath And the LORD thy God will circumcise thine heart, and the heart
of tho love the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and with
all thy soul, tayest live.

30:7 And the LORD thy God will put all these curses upon ies, and on them that hate thee, which persecuted thee.

30:8 And thouturn and obey the voice of the LORD, and do all
his commandments which thee this day.

30:9 And the LORD thy God will make thee plenteous inrk of
thine hand, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cain the fruit of thy land, for good: for the LORD will again
rejoice ovr good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers: 30:10 If
thou shalt hearken uof the LORD thy God, to keep his
commandments and his statutes which ae written in this book of the
law, and if thou turn unto the LORD thy l thine heart, and
with all thy soul.

30:11 For this commandment whic thee this day, it is not
hidden from thee, neither is it far off.

30not in heaven, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go up
for us to heavng it unto us, that we may hear it, and do
it?  30:13 Neither is it be sea, that thou shouldest say, Who
shall go over the sea for us, and bo us, that we may hear
it, and do it?  30:14 But the word is very nigh in thy
mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it.

30:15 See, Ibefore thee this day life and good, and death
and evil; 30:16 In that thee this day to love the LORD thy
God, to walk in his ways, and to keandments and his
statutes and his judgments, that thou mayest live andand
the LORD thy God shall bless thee in the land whither thou goest t it.

30:17 But if thine heart turn away, so that thou wilt not hear, be drawn away, and worship other gods, and serve them; 30:18 I
denounc this day, that ye shall surely perish, and that ye
shall not prolong pon the land, whither thou passest over
Jordan to go to possess it.

3 heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I
have set befofe and death, blessing and cursing: therefore
choose life, that both ty seed may live: 30:20 That thou
mayest love the LORD thy God, and thaest obey his voice, and
that thou mayest cleave unto him: for he is th the length
of thy days: that thou mayest dwell in the land which the e
unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.
nd Moses went and spake these words unto all Israel.

31:2 And he said, I am an hundred and twenty years old this
day; I can no more go out n: also the LORD hath said unto
me, Thou shalt not go over this Jordane LORD thy God, he will go over before thee, and he will
destroy theserom before thee, and thou shalt possess them:
and Joshua, he shall go  thee, as the LORD hath said.

31:4 And the LORD shall do unto them as Sihon and to Og,
kings of the Amorites, and unto the land of them, whroyed.

31:5 And the LORD shall give them up before your face, that yeto them according unto all the commandments which I have commanded
youstrong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them:
for theGod, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not
fail thee, nor forsa31:7 And Moses called unto Joshua, and said unto him in the sight of
aBe strong and of a good courage: for thou must go with
this people unt which the LORD hath sworn unto their fathers
to give them; and thou s them to inherit it.

31:8 And the LORD, he it is that doth go before ll be with
thee, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee: fear notbe dismayed.

31:9 And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it unto thehe
sons of Levi, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and ue elders of Israel.

31:10 And Moses commanded them, saying, At the en seven
years, in the solemnity of the year of release, in the feast ofes, 31:11 When all Israel is come to appear before the LORD
thy God in which he shall choose, thou shalt read this law
before all Israel in ing.

31:12 Gather the people together, men and women, and children, anger that is within thy gates, that they may hear, and that they
may lfear the LORD your God, and observe to do all the words
of this law: 3hat their children, which have not known any
thing, may hear, and learhe LORD your God, as long as ye
live in the land whither ye go over Jossess it.

31:14 And the LORD said unto Moses, Behold, thy days approau must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the tabernacle
of tation, that I may give him a charge. And Moses and
Joshua went, and prmselves in the tabernacle of the
congregation.

31:15 And the LORD apphe tabernacle in a pillar of a cloud:
and the pillar of the cloud stoodoor of the tabernacle.

31:16 And the LORD said unto Moses, Behold, t sleep with thy
fathers; and this people will rise up, and go a whorin gods
of the strangers of the land, whither they go to be among them, orsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with them.

31:17 Tnger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I
will forsake thel hide my face from them, and they shall
be devoured, and many evils aes shall befall them; so that
they will say in that day, Are not these upon us, because
our God is not among us?  31:18 And I will surely hi in that
day for all the evils which they shall have wrought, in that urned unto other gods.

31:19 Now therefore write ye this song for youh it the
children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song maess for me against the children of Israel.

31:20 For when I shall havhem into the land which I sware
unto their fathers, that floweth with ney; and they shall
have eaten and filled themselves, and waxen fat; they turn
unto other gods, and serve them, and provoke me, and break my
31:21 And it shall come to pass, when many evils and troubles are
bef that this song shall testify against them as a witness;
for it shall otten out of the mouths of their seed: for I
know their imagination whgo about, even now, before I have
brought them into the land which I s31:22 Moses therefore wrote this song the same day, and taught it the
f Israel.

31:23 And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, and said,
and of a good courage: for thou shalt bring the children of Israel
innd which I sware unto them: and I will be with thee.

31:24 And it cam, when Moses had made an end of writing the
words of this law in a boohey were finished, 31:25 That
Moses commanded the Levites, which bare  the covenant of the
LORD, saying, 31:26 Take this book of the law, ann the side
of the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, that it ma
for a witness against thee.

31:27 For I know thy rebellion, and thy k: behold, while I am
yet alive with you this day, ye have been rebellst the LORD;
and how much more after my death?  31:28 Gather unto me aers
of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words ins, and call heaven and earth to record against them.

31:29 For I knower my death ye will utterly corrupt
yourselves, and turn aside from th I have commanded you;
and evil will befall you in the latter days; bell do evil
in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger through t
your hands.

31:30 And Moses spake in the ears of all the congregatiol
the words of this song, until they were ended.

32:1 Give ear, O ye d I will speak; and hear, O earth, the
words of my mouth.

32:2 My docl drop as the rain, my speech shall distil as the
dew, as the small rahe tender herb, and as the showers upon
the grass: 32:3 Because I willthe name of the LORD: ascribe
ye greatness unto our God.

32:4 He is this work is perfect: for all his ways are
judgment: a God of truth andiquity, just and right is he.

32:5 They have corrupted themselves, ths not the spot of his
children: they are a perverse and crooked genera:6 Do ye thus requite the LORD, O foolish people and unwise? is not
her that hath bought thee? hath he not made thee, and
established thee? ber the days of old, consider the years
of many generations: ask thy father, and he will shew thee; thy
elders, and they will tell thee.

32:8 When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when
he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people
according to the number of the children of Israel.

32:9 For the LORD’s portion is his people; Jacob is the lot of his
inheritance.

32:10 He found him in a desert land, and in the waste howling
wilderness; he led hi, he instructed him, he kept him as the
apple of his eye.

32:11 As anreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young,
spreadeth abroad her wingth them, beareth them on her wings:
32:12 So the LORD alone did lead here was no strange god
with him.

32:13 He made him ride on the high phe earth, that he might
eat the increase of the fields; and he made hioney out of
the rock, and oil out of the flinty rock; 32:14 Butter of ilk of sheep, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and
h the fat of kidneys of wheat; and thou didst drink the pure
blood of 
32:15 But Jeshurun waxed fat, and kicked: thou art waxen fat, thou arhou art covered with fatness; then he forsook God which
made him, and  esteemed the Rock of his salvation.

32:16 They provoked him to jealorange gods, with
abominations provoked they him to anger.

32:17 They d unto devils, not to God; to gods whom they knew
not, to new gods thay up, whom your fathers feared not.

32:18 Of the Rock that begat theenmindful, and hast
forgotten God that formed thee.

32:19 And when thet, he abhorred them, because of the
provoking of his sons, and of his 

32:20 And he said, I will hide my face from them, I will see what
thll be: for they are a very froward generation, children
in whom is no 2:21 They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God; they
hked me to anger with their vanities: and I will move them to
jealousy e which are not a people; I will provoke them to
anger with a foolish :22 For a fire is kindled in mine anger, and shall burn unto the
lowesd shall consume the earth with her increase, and set on
fire the foundhe mountains.

32:23 I will heap mischiefs upon them; I will spend minon
them.

32:24 They shall be burnt with hunger, and devoured with burand with bitter destruction: I will also send the teeth of beasts upon the poison of serpents of the dust.

32:25 The sword without, and ter shall destroy both the
young man and the virgin, the suckling also wi of gray
hairs.

32:26 I said, I would scatter them into corners, I wothe
remembrance of them to cease from among men: 32:27 Were it not thathe wrath of the enemy, lest their adversaries should behave
themselvey, and lest they should say, Our hand is high, and
the LORD hath not dis.

32:28 For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there anyding in them.

32:29 O that they were wise, that they understood this,
would consider their latter end!  32:30 How should one chase a
thousao put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock had
sold them, and thehut them up?  32:31 For their rock is not
as our Rock, even our enemieselves being judges.

32:32 For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, anields of
Gomorrah: their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are2:33 Their wine is the poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of
asps. not this laid up in store with me, and sealed up among my
treasures? me belongeth vengeance and recompence; their foot
shall slide in due te day of their calamity is at hand, and
the things that shall come upo haste.

32:36 For the LORD shall judge his people, and repent himselfervants, when he seeth that their power is gone, and there is none
shueft.

32:37 And he shall say, Where are their gods, their rock in whomsted, 32:38 Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drank
the wr drink offerings? let them rise up and help you, and
be your protecti See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god with me: I
kill, alive; I wound, and I heal: neither is there any that
can deliver out o

32:40 For I lift up my hand to heaven, and say, I live for ever.

32et my glittering sword, and mine hand take hold on
judgment; I will reance to mine enemies, and will reward
them that hate me.

32:42 I willarrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall
devour flesh; and that witood of the slain and of the
captives, from the beginning of revenges uemy.

32:43 Rejoice, O ye nations, with his people: for he will avenge of his servants, and will render vengeance to his adversaries,
and wiful unto his land, and to his people.

32:44 And Moses came and spake rds of this song in the ears
of the people, he, and Hoshea the son of 5 And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel:
32:said unto them, Set your hearts unto all the words which
I testify amo day, which ye shall command your children to
observe to do, all the whis law.

32:47 For it is not a vain thing for you; because it is your
through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, whither yeordan to possess it.

32:48 And the LORD spake unto Moses that selfsamng, 32:49
Get thee up into this mountain Abarim, unto mount Nebo, whice land of Moab, that is over against Jericho; and behold the land of
Cich I give unto the children of Israel for a possession:
32:50 And dieher thou goest up, and be gathered unto
thy people; as Aaron thy brothed in mount Hor, and was gathered
unto his people: 32:51 Because ye trainst me among the
children of Israel at the waters of MeribahKadesh, derness
of Zin; because ye sanctified me not in the midst of the childael.

32:52 Yet thou shalt see the land before thee; but thou shalt noer unto the land which I give the children of Israel.

33:1 And this ising, wherewith Moses the man of God blessed
the children of Israel beeath.

33:2 And he said, The LORD came from Sinai, and rose up from Seir unto
them; he shined forth from mount Paran, and he came with ten t
of saints: from his right hand went a fiery law for them.

33:3 Yea,  loved the people; all his saints are in thy hand: and
they sat down aevery one shall receive of thy words.

33:4 Moses commanded us a law, inheritance of the
congregation of Jacob.

33:5 And he was king in Jes the heads of the people and the
tribes of Israel were gathered togethet Reuben live, and not die; and let not his men be few.

33:7 And thiessing of Judah: and he said, Hear, LORD, the
voice of Judah, and brin his people: let his hands be
sufficient for him; and be thou an help his enemies.

33:8 And of Levi he said, Let thy Thummim and thy Urim b
holy one, whom thou didst prove at Massah, and with whom thou didst
se waters of Meribah; 33:9 Who said unto his father and to
his mother, t seen him; neither did he acknowledge his
brethren, nor knew his own for they have observed thy word,
and kept thy covenant.

33:10 They shJacob thy judgments, and Israel thy law: they
shall put incense before whole burnt sacrifice upon thine
altar.

33:11 Bless, LORD, his substccept the work of his hands;
smite through the loins of them that riseim, and of them
that hate him, that they rise not again.

33:12 And ofe said, The beloved of the LORD shall dwell in
safety by him; and the cover him all the day long, and he
shall dwell between his shoulders.
of Joseph he said, Blessed of the LORD be his land, for the
precious teaven, for the dew, and for the deep that coucheth
beneath, 33:14 And ecious fruits brought forth by the sun,
and for the precious things pu the moon, 33:15 And for the
chief things of the ancient mountains, anprecious things of
the lasting hills, 33:16 And for the precious thingarth and
fulness thereof, and for the good will of him that dwelt in tt the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of the
h that was separated from his brethren.

33:17 His glory is like the fihis bullock, and his horns
are like the horns of unicorns: with them hsh the people
together to the ends of the earth: and they are the ten  of
Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.

33:18 And of Zebid, Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out; and,
Issachar, in thy tents.

shall call the people unto the mountain; there they shall
offer sacrifghteousness: for they shall suck of the
abundance of the seas, and of hid in the sand.

33:20 And of Gad he said, Blessed be he that enlargedwelleth as a lion, and teareth the arm with the crown of the head.

3e provided the first part for himself, because there, in a
portion of er, was he seated; and he came with the heads of
the people, he executtice of the LORD, and his judgments
with Israel.

33:22 And of Dan he s a lion’s whelp: he shall leap from
Bashan.

33:23 And of Naphtali aphtali, satisfied with favour, and
full with the blessing of the LORDhou the west and the
south.

33:24 And of Asher he said, Let Asher be th children; let
him be acceptable to his brethren, and let him dip hiil.

33:25 Thy shoes shall be iron and brass; and as thy days, so shalength be.

33:26 There is none like unto the God of Jeshurun, who ride
heaven in thy help, and in his excellency on the sky.

33:27 The eteris thy refuge, and underneath are the
everlasting arms: and he shall t the enemy from before thee;
and shall say, Destroy them.

33:28 Israell dwell in safety alone: the fountain of Jacob
shall be upon a land owine; also his heavens shall drop
down dew.

33:29 Happy art thou, O Ilike unto thee, O people saved
by the LORD, the shield of thy help, anthe sword of thy
excellency! and thine enemies shall be found liars und thou
shalt tread upon their high places.

34:1 And Moses went up fros of Moab unto the mountain of
Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is oveJericho. And the LORD
shewed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan, 34:Naphtali,
and the land of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and all the land of Jthe utmost sea, 34:3 And the south, and the plain of the valley of
Jerity of palm trees, unto Zoar.

34:4 And the LORD said unto him, This iwhich I sware unto
Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I willnto thy
seed: I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou so over thither.

34:5 So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in tf Moab,
according to the word of the LORD.

34:6 And he buried him in n the land of Moab, over against
Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his snto this day.

34:7 And Moses was an hundred and twenty years old whenhis
eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated.

34:8 And the childel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab
thirty days: so the days of we mourning for Moses were ended.

34:9 And Joshua the son of Nun was fu spirit of wisdom; for
Moses had laid his hands upon him: and the chilrael
hearkened unto him, and did as the LORD commanded Moses.

34:10 Aarose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses,
whom the LORD kneface, 34:11 In all the signs and the
wonders, which the LORD sent him the land of Egypt to
Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his 2 And in
all that mighty hand, and in all the great terror which Moses the sight of all Israel.




The Book of Joshua


1:1 Now after the dses the servant of the LORD it came to
pass, that the LORD spake unto son of Nun, Moses’ minister,
saying, 1:2 Moses my servant is dead; nre arise, go over
this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the lando give
to them, even to the children of Israel.

1:3 Every place thatf your foot shall tread upon, that have
I given unto you, as I said un
1:4 From the wilderness and this Lebanon even unto the great river,
tEuphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great
sea toward down of the sun, shall be your coast.

1:5 There shall not any man bestand before thee all the days
of thy life: as I was with Moses, so I th thee: I will not
fail thee, nor forsake thee.

1:6 Be strong and ofurage: for unto this people shalt thou
divide for an inheritance the lh I sware unto their fathers
to give them.

1:7 Only be thou strong anrageous, that thou mayest observe
to do according to all the law, whicy servant commanded thee:
turn not from it to the right hand or to theat thou mayest
prosper withersoever thou goest.

1:8 This book of the not depart out of thy mouth; but thou
shalt meditate therein day and nthou mayest observe to do
according to all that is written therein: fou shalt make thy
way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good successe not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not
afraidbe thou dismayed: for the LORD thy God is with thee
whithersoever thou:10 Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, 1:11
Pas the host, and command the people, saying, Prepare you
victuals; for wree days ye shall pass over this Jordan, to go
in to possess the land,e LORD your God giveth you to possess
it.

1:12 And to the Reubenites,he Gadites, and to half the tribe
of Manasseh, spake Joshua, saying, 1er the word which Moses
the servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, your God hath
given you rest, and hath given you this land.

1:14 Youour little ones, and your cattle, shall remain in
the land which Moses on this side Jordan; but ye shall pass
before your brethren armed, alty men of valour, and help
them; 1:15 Until the LORD have given your bst, as he hath
given you, and they also have possessed the land which your
God giveth them: then ye shall return unto the land of your
posse enjoy it, which Moses the LORD’s servant gave you on
this side Jordthe sunrising.

1:16 And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou cus we
will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us, we will go.

1:17 Achearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we
hearken unto thee: onlyy God be with thee, as he was with
Moses.

1:18 Whosoever he be that dagainst thy commandment, and will
not hearken unto thy words in all thommandest him, he shall
be put to death: only be strong and of a good 2:1 And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shittim two men to spy
secresaying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went, and
came into as house, named Rahab, and lodged there.

2:2 And it was told the kingo, saying, Behold, there came
men in hither to night of the children oo search out the
country.

2:3 And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab Bring forth the
men that are come to thee, which are entered into thi for
they be come to search out all the country.

2:4 And the woman tomen, and hid them, and said thus, There
came men unto me, but I wist n they were: 2:5 And it came to
pass about the time of shutting of the  it was dark, that
the men went out: whither the men went I wot not: pr them
quickly; for ye shall overtake them.

2:6 But she had brought the roof of the house, and hid them
with the stalks of flax, which she  order upon the roof.

2:7 And the men pursued after them the way to Jthe fords:
and as soon as they which pursued after them were gone out,
the gate.

2:8 And before they were laid down, she came up unto them of; 2:9 And she said unto the men, I know that the LORD hath given
you and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the
inhabitants d faint because of you.

2:10 For we have heard how the LORD dried up of the Red sea
for you, when ye came out of Egypt; and what ye did untings
of the Amorites, that were on the other side Jordan, Sihon and Ogutterly destroyed.

2:11 And as soon as we had heard these things, ourd melt,
neither did there remain any more courage in any man, because r the LORD your God, he is God in heaven above, and in earth
beneath.
herefore, I pray you, swear unto me by the LORD, since I
have shewed y, that ye will also shew kindness unto my
father’s house, and give mken: 2:13 And that ye will save
alive my father, and my mother, and myand my sisters, and
all that they have, and deliver our lives from deaAnd the men answered her, Our life for yours, if ye utter not
this ourAnd it shall be, when the LORD hath given us the
land, that we will dend truly with thee.

2:15 Then she let them down by a cord through ther her
house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall.

2:16said unto them, Get you to the mountain, lest the
pursuers meet you; arselves there three days, until the
pursuers be returned: and afterwaro your way.

2:17 And the men said unto her, We will be blameless of tne
oath which thou hast made us swear.

2:18 Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this line of
scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by: and thou
shalt bring thy father, and thy mother, and thy brethren, and all thy
father’s household, home unto thee.

2:19 And it shall be, that whosoever shall go out of the doors of thy
house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will
be guiltless: and whosoever shall be with thee in the house,  blood
shall be on our head, if any hand be upon him.

2:20 And if thois our business, then we will be quit of
thine oath which thou hast maswear.

2:21 And she said, According unto your words, so be it. And shm away, and they departed: and she bound the scarlet line in the
windond they went, and came unto the mountain, and abode there three
days, pursuers were returned: and the pursuers sought them
throughout all th found them not.

2:23 So the two men returned, and descended from the, and
passed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and told him allt befell them: 2:24 And they said unto Joshua, Truly the
LORD hath del our hands all the land; for even all the
inhabitants of the country dcause of us.

3:1 And Joshua rose early in the morning; and they removittim, and came to Jordan, he and all the children of Israel, and
lodgfore they passed over.

3:2 And it came to pass after three days, thatent
through the host; 3:3 And they commanded the people, saying, When e ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, and the priests the
Leviteit, then ye shall remove from your place, and go after
it.

3:4 Yet the a space between you and it, about two thousand
cubits by measure: cor unto it, that ye may know the way by
which ye must go: for ye have nthis way heretofore.

3:5 And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yofor to
morrow the LORD will do wonders among you.

3:6 And Joshua spakpriests, saying, Take up the ark of the
covenant, and pass over before. And they took up the ark of
the covenant, and went before the peoplethe LORD said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify
thee in thall Israel, that they may know that, as I was
with Moses, so I will be

3:8 And thou shalt command the priests that bear the ark of the
coveng, When ye are come to the brink of the water of
Jordan, ye shall sta Jordan.

3:9 And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, Come hither
the words of the LORD your God.

3:10 And Joshua said, Hereby ye shalt the living God is
among you, and that he will without fail drive oute you the
Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites, and the Periz
the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites.

3:11 Behold, tthe covenant of the LORD of all the earth
passeth over before you into3:12 Now therefore take you twelve men out of the tribes of Israel,
outribe a man.

3:13 And it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of f
the priests that bear the ark of the LORD, the LORD of all the eartht in the waters of Jordan, that the waters of Jordan shall be
cut off aters that come down from above; and they shall
stand upon an heap.

3came to pass, when the people removed from their tents, to
pass over J the priests bearing the ark of the covenant
before the people; 3:15 Athat bare the ark were come unto
Jordan, and the feet of the priests te ark were dipped in
the brim of the water, (for Jordan overfloweth als all the
time of harvest,) 3:16 That the waters which came down from d and rose up upon an heap very far from the city Adam, that is
besideand those that came down toward the sea of the plain,
even the salt se and were cut off: and the people passed
over right against Jericho.

d the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD
stood firmound in the midst of Jordan, and all the
Israelites passed over on dryntil all the people were passed
clean over Jordan.

4:1 And it came ton all the people were clean passed over
Jordan, that the LORD spake un, saying, 4:2 Take you twelve
men out of the people, out of every trib:3 And command ye
them, saying, Take you hence out of the midst of Jorf the
place where the priests’ feet stood firm, twelve stones, and yrry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place, where
ye ge this night.

4:4 Then Joshua called the twelve men, whom he had prehe
children of Israel, out of every tribe a man: 4:5 And Joshua said u Pass over before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst of
Jordae you up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder,
according unto thf the tribes of the children of Israel: 4:6
That this may be a sign amthat when your children ask their
fathers in time to come, saying, Whaby these stones?  4:7
Then ye shall answer them, That the waters of Jout off
before the ark of the covenant of the LORD; when it passed overthe waters of Jordan were cut off: and these stones shall be
for a memo the children of Israel for ever.

4:8 And the children of Israel didhua commanded, and took up
twelve stones out of the midst of Jordan, a spake unto
Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the childrael, and carried them over with them unto the place where they
lodgedd them down there.

4:9 And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst on the
place where the feet of the priests which bare the ark of the cod: and they are there unto this day.

4:10 For the priests which bare ood in the midst of Jordan,
until everything was finished that the LORed Joshua to speak
unto the people, according to all that Moses comman: and the
people hasted and passed over.

4:11 And it came to pass, whpeople were clean passed over,
that the ark of the LORD passed over, aests, in the presence
of the people.

4:12 And the children of Reuben,hildren of Gad, and half the
tribe of Manasseh, passed over armed befoldren of Israel, as
Moses spake unto them: 4:13 About forty thousand p war
passed over before the LORD unto battle, to the plains of Jericho that day the LORD magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel;
and thhim, as they feared Moses, all the days of his life.

4:15 And the LORto Joshua, saying, 4:16 Command the priests
that bear the ark of the tthat they come up out of Jordan.

4:17 Joshua therefore commanded the ing, Come ye up out of
Jordan.

4:18 And it came to pass, when the pribare the ark of the
covenant of the LORD were come up out of the midst, and the
soles of the priests’ feet were lifted up unto the dry lan
waters of Jordan returned unto their place, and flowed over all his
bey did before.

4:19 And the people came up out of Jordan on the tenth
first month, and encamped in Gilgal, in the east border of Jericho.

hose twelve stones, which they took out of Jordan, did
Joshua pitch in:21 And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your
childrk their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean
these stones?  4:22hall let your children know, saying,
Israel came over this Jordan on d
4:23 For the LORD your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before
 ye were passed over, as the LORD your God did to the Red
sea, which hfrom before us, until we were gone over: 4:24
That all the people of tight know the hand of the LORD, that
it is mighty: that ye might fear your God for ever.

5:1 And it came to pass, when all the kings of the, which
were on the side of Jordan westward, and all the kings of the
, which were by the sea, heard that the LORD had dried up
the waters oom before the children of Israel, until we were
passed over, that theielted, neither was there spirit in them
any more, because of the childrael.

5:2 At that time the LORD said unto Joshua, Make thee sharp kniircumcise again the children of Israel the second time.

5:3 And Joshu sharp knives, and circumcised the children of
Israel at the hill of tskins.

5:4 And this is the cause why Joshua did circumcise: All the pt came out of Egypt, that were males, even all the men of war, died
inrness by the way, after they came out of Egypt.

5:5 Now all the peoplme out were circumcised: but all the
people that were born in the wildthe way as they came forth
out of Egypt, them they had not circumcised the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness,
till alle that were men of war, which came out of Egypt,
were consumed, becauseyed not the voice of the LORD: unto
whom the LORD sware that he wouldhem the land, which the
LORD sware unto their fathers that he would give us, a land that
floweth with milk and honey.

5:7 And their children, whom he raised up in their stead, them Joshua
circumcised: for they were uncircumcised, because they had not
circumcised them by the way.

5:8 And it came to pass, when they had done circumcising all the
people, that they abode in their places in the camp, till they were
whole.

5:9 And the LORD said unto Joshua, This day have I rolled away the
 of Egypt from off you. Wherefore the name of the place is
called Gilgis day.

5:10 And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal, and kept er on the fourteenth day of the month at even in the plains of
Jerichond they did eat of the old corn of the land on the morrow after
the paeavened cakes, and parched corn in the selfsame day.

5:12 And the manon the morrow after they had eaten of the
old corn of the land; neithechildren of Israel manna any
more; but they did eat of the fruit of thCanaan that year.

5:13 And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jerich lifted
up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man over agwith his sword drawn in his hand: and Joshua went unto him, and
said ut thou for us, or for our adversaries?  5:14 And he
said, Nay; but as tain of the host of the LORD am I now come. And
Joshua fell on his fac and did worship, and said unto
him, What saith my Lord unto his serva15 And the captain of the
LORD’s host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shff thy foot; for
the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua d1 Now Jericho was straitly shut up because of the children of
Israel: out, and none came in.

6:2 And the LORD said unto Joshua, See, I have thine hand
Jericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valoud ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round
about the. Thus shalt thou do six days.

6:4 And seven priests shall bear beforseven trumpets of
rams’ horns: and the seventh day ye shall compass even
times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets.

6:5 And it  to pass, that when they make a long blast with
the ram’s horn, and r the sound of the trumpet, all the
people shall shout with a great shhe wall of the city shall
fall down flat, and the people shall ascend n straight
before him.

6:6 And Joshua the son of Nun called the priesd unto them,
Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bempets of rams’ horns before the ark of the LORD.

6:7 And he said unple, Pass on, and compass the city, and
let him that is armed pass on ark of the LORD.

6:8 And it came to pass, when Joshua had spoken untople, that
the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams’ hornon
before the LORD, and blew with the trumpets: and the ark of the
cov of the LORD followed them.

6:9 And the armed men went before the priblew with the
trumpets, and the rereward came after the ark, the priesn,
and blowing with the trumpets.

6:10 And Joshua had commanded the pying, Ye shall not shout,
nor make any noise with your voice, neither ord proceed out
of your mouth, until the day I bid you shout; then shat.

6:11 So the ark of the LORD compassed the city, going about it onc came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.

6:12 And Joshua rose earorning, and the priests took up the
ark of the LORD.

6:13 And seven ping seven trumpets of rams’ horns before
the ark of the LORD went ony, and blew with the trumpets:
and the armed men went before them; butard came after the
ark of the LORD, the priests going on, and blowing mpets.

6:14 And the second day they compassed the city once, and retuhe camp: so they did six days.

6:15 And it came to pass on the seventt they rose early
about the dawning of the day, and compassed the city same
manner seven times: only on that day they compassed the city sev
6:16 And it came to pass at the seventh time, when the priests blew
wumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout; for the LORD
hath given yocity.

6:17 And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are
o the LORD: only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all
that are witthe house, because she hid the messengers that we
sent.

6:18 And ye, e keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest
ye make yourselves accn ye take of the accursed thing, and
make the camp of Israel a curse, e it.

6:19 But all the silver, and gold, and vessels of brass and ironsecrated unto the LORD: they shall come into the treasury of the
LORD the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets:
and it ca, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet,
and the people shoutgreat shout, that the wall fell down
flat, so that the people went up ty, every man straight
before him, and they took the city.

6:21 And t destroyed all that was in the city, both man and
woman, young and oldand sheep, and ass, with the edge of the
sword.

6:22 But Joshua had se two men that had spied out the
country, Go into the harlot’s houseg out thence the woman,
and all that she hath, as ye sware unto her.

the young men that were spies went in, and brought out Rahab,
and her d her mother, and her brethren, and all that she
had; and they broughtl her kindred, and left them without the
camp of Israel.

6:24 And thee city with fire, and all that was therein: only
the silver, and the gthe vessels of brass and of iron, they
put into the treasury of the ho LORD.

6:25 And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her fatherld, and all that she had; and she dwelleth in Israel even unto
this dause she hid the messengers, which Joshua sent to spy out
Jericho.

6:2a adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man
before the LORDeth up and buildeth this city Jericho: he
shall lay the foundation thes firstborn, and in his youngest
son shall he set up the gates of it.
he LORD was with Joshua; and his fame was noised throughout
all the co:1 But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed
thihan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of
Zerah, of the trib, took of the accursed thing: and the
anger of the LORD was kindled agchildren of Israel.

7:2 And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, whiche Bethaven,
on the east of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up the
country.

And the men went up and viewed Ai.

7:3 And they returneua, and said unto him, Let not all the
people go up; but let about two thousand men go up and smite
Ai; and make not all the people to labou; for they are but
few.

7:4 So there went up thither of the people abthousand men:
and they fled before the men of Ai.

7:5 And the men of f them about thirty and six men: for they
chased them from before the unto Shebarim, and smote them in
the going down: wherefore the hearts ople melted, and became
as water.

7:6 And Joshua rent his clothes, anhe earth upon his face
before the ark of the LORD until the eventide, elders of
Israel, and put dust upon their heads.

7:7 And Joshua said,ORD God, wherefore hast thou at all
brought this people over Jordan, t us into the hand of the
Amorites, to destroy us? would to God we had nt, and dwelt
on the other side Jordan!  7:8 O LORD, what shall I say,l
turneth their backs before their enemies!  7:9 For the Canaanites an inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ us
round,ff our name from the earth: and what wilt thou do unto
thy great name? the LORD said unto Joshua, Get thee up;
wherefore liest thou thus upo?  7:11 Israel hath sinned, and
they have also transgressed my covenan commanded them: for
they have even taken of the accursed thing, and h stolen, and
dissembled also, and they have put it even among their ow7:12 Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their
eneturned their backs before their enemies, because they
were accursed: nl I be with you any more, except ye destroy
the accursed from among yoUp, sanctify the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves against to
morro saith the LORD God of Israel, There is an accursed
thing in the midst, O Israel: thou canst not stand before
thine enemies, until ye take aursed thing from among you.

7:14 In the morning therefore ye shall beccording to your
tribes: and it shall be, that the tribe which the LORshall
come according to the families thereof; and the family which thel take shall come by households; and the household which the LORD
shalll come man by man.

7:15 And it shall be, that he that is taken with d thing
shall be burnt with fire, he and all that he hath: because he gressed the covenant of the LORD, and because he hath wrought
folly inael.

7:16 So Joshua rose up early in the morning, and brought Israel by
their tribes; and the tribe of Judah was taken: 7:17 And he brought
the family of Judah; and he took the family of the Zarhites: and he
brought the family of the Zarhites man by man; and Zabdi was taken:
7:18 And he brought his household man by man; and Achan, the son of
Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was
taken
7:19 And Joshua said unto Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory to
od of Israel, and make confession unto him; and tell me now
what thou ; hide it not from me.

7:20 And Achan answered Joshua, and said, Indesinned against
the LORD God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done: I saw
among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment, and two hundred shilver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight, then I coveted
thek them; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in the
midst of my tentsilver under it.

7:22 So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran unto th,
behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it.

7:23 And tout of the midst of the tent, and brought them
unto Joshua, and unto a children of Israel, and laid them out
before the LORD.

7:24 And Josh Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah,
and the silver, and theand the wedge of gold, and his sons,
and his daughters, and his oxen, asses, and his sheep, and his
tent, and all that he had: and they brounto the valley of
Achor.

7:25 And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubledORD shall
trouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stonesrned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones.

7:26 Anded over him a great heap of stones unto this day. So
the LORD turned ferceness of his anger. Wherefore the name
of that place was called, Th Achor, unto this day.

8:1 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Fear not, nthou dismayed:
take all the people of war with thee, and arise, go up , I
have given into thy hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his chis land: 8:2 And thou shalt do to Ai and her king as thou didst
unto d her king: only the spoil thereof, and the cattle
thereof, shall ye tprey unto yourselves: lay thee an ambush
for the city behind it.

8:3 arose, and all the people of war, to go up against Ai:
and Joshua chosy thousand mighty men of valour, and sent
them away by night.

8:4 Andnded them, saying, Behold, ye shall lie in wait
against the city, even city: go not very far from the city,
but be ye all ready: 8:5 And I, e people that are with me,
will approach unto the city: and it shall c, when they come
out against us, as at the first, that we will flee be 8:6
(For they will come out after us) till we have drawn them from thr they will say, They flee before us, as at the first:
therefore we wiefore them.

8:7 Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon
for the LORD your God will deliver it into your hand.

8:8 And it shan ye have taken the city, that ye shall set
the city on fire: accordinommandment of the LORD shall ye
do. See, I have commanded you.

8:9 Jofore sent them forth: and they went to lie in ambush,
and abode betweend Ai, on the west side of Ai: but Joshua
lodged that night among the :10 And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and numbered the people,
p, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.

8:11 And alle, even the people of war that were with him,
went up, and drew nigh, efore the city, and pitched on the
north side of Ai: now there was a ven them and Ai.

8:12 And he took about five thousand men, and set then
ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city.

8:13 Any had set the people, even all the host that was on
the north of the ceir liers in wait on the west of the
city, Joshua went that night into of the valley.

8:14 And it came to pass, when the king of Ai saw it, hasted
and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Isttle, he and all his people, at a time appointed, before the plain;
but not that there were liers in ambush against him behind the
city.

8:hua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before
them, and fled bof the wilderness.

8:16 And all the people that were in Ai were calle to pursue
after them: and they pursued after Joshua, and were drawn ahe city.

8:17 And there was not a man left in Ai or Bethel, that wentter Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel.

8: LORD said unto Joshua, Stretch out the spear that is in
thy hand towar I will give it into thine hand. And Joshua
stretched out the spear tn his hand toward the city.

8:19 And the ambush arose quickly out of e, and they ran as
soon as he had stretched out his hand: and they enthe city,
and took it, and hasted and set the city on fire.

8:20 And wn of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and, behold,
the smoke of the cid up to heaven, and they had no power to
flee this way or that way: ane that fled to the wilderness
turned back upon the pursuers.

8:21 Andua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the
city, and that thef the city ascended, then they turned again,
and slew the men of Ai.

e other issued out of the city against them; so they were
in the midst, some on this side, and some on that side: and
they smote them, so thone of them remain or escape.

8:23 And the king of Ai they took alive Joshua.

8:24 And it came to pass, when Israel had made an end of slahe inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness wherein they
chasnd when they were all fallen on the edge of the sword,
until they werethat all the Israelites returned unto Ai,
and smote it with the edge od.

8:25 And so it was, that all that fell that day, both of men and
wtwelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.

8:26 For Joshua drew not his, wherewith he stretched out the
spear, until he had utterly destroyednhabitants of Ai.

8:27 Only the cattle and the spoil of that city Isror a prey
unto themselves, according unto the word of the LORD which hd Joshua.

8:28 And Joshua burnt Ai, and made it an heap for ever, evetion unto this day.

8:29 And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree untiland as
soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should takase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate of
thed raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remaineth
unto this day.
 Joshua built an altar unto the LORD God of Israel in mount
Ebal, 8:31he servant of the LORD commanded the children of
Israel, as it is writbook of the law of Moses, an altar of
whole stones, over which no man  up any iron: and they
offered thereon burnt offerings unto the LORD, iced peace
offerings.

8:32 And he wrote there upon the stones a copy  of Moses,
which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.

 Israel, and their elders, and officers, and their judges,
stood on thhe ark and on that side before the priests the
Levites, which bare the covenant of the LORD, as well the
stranger, as he that was born amongf of them over against
mount Gerizim, and half of them over against mos Moses the
servant of the LORD had commanded before, that they should
people of Israel.

8:34 And afterward he read all the words of the lassings and
cursings, according to all that is written in the book of t:35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua
reare all the congregation of Israel, with the women, and
the little onesstrangers that were conversant among them.

9:1 And it came to pass, we kings which were on this side
Jordan, in the hills, and in the valle all the coasts of the
great sea over against Lebanon, the Hittite, ante, the
Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, heard 2 That they gathered themselves together, to fight with Joshua and
witwith one accord.

9:3 And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Jodone unto
Jericho and to Ai, 9:4 They did work wilily, and went and maey had been ambassadors, and took old sacks upon their asses, and
wineold, and rent, and bound up; 9:5 And old shoes and
clouted upon their old garments upon them; and all the bread
of their provision was dry a
9:6 And they went to Joshua unto the camp at Gilgal, and said unto
hithe men of Israel, We be come from a far country: now
therefore make y with us.

9:7 And the men of Israel said unto the Hivites, Peradventu
among us; and how shall we make a league with you?  9:8 And they saidhua, We are thy servants. And Joshua said unto them, Who are
ye? and f come ye?  9:9 And they said unto him, From a very
far country thy sercome because of the name of the LORD thy
God: for we have heard the fa and all that he did in Egypt,
9:10 And all that he did to the two kine Amorites, that were
beyond Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to f Bashan,
which was at Ashtaroth.

9:11 Wherefore our elders and all tants of our country spake
to us, saying, Take victuals with you for thand go to meet
them, and say unto them, We are your servants: therefor ye a
league with us.

9:12 This our bread we took hot for our provisiour houses on
the day we came forth to go unto you; but now, behold, iand
it is mouldy: 9:13 And these bottles of wine, which we filled, wer behold, they be rent: and these our garments and our shoes
are becomeason of the very long journey.

9:14 And the men took of their victualed not counsel at the
mouth of the LORD.

9:15 And Joshua made peace wmade a league with them, to
let them live: and the princes of the congware unto them.

9:16 And it came to pass at the end of three days aftd made
a league with them, that they heard that they were their neighbthat they dwelt among them.

9:17 And the children of Israel journeyed unto their cities
on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, and and
Beeroth, and Kirjathjearim.

9:18 And the children of Israel smott, because the princes of
the congregation had sworn unto them by the f Israel. And
all the congregation murmured against the princes.

9:19the princes said unto all the congregation, We have sworn
unto them byod of Israel: now therefore we may not touch
them.

9:20 This we will ; we will even let them live, lest wrath
be upon us, because of the oawe sware unto them.

9:21 And the princes said unto them, Let them liv them be
hewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregationrinces had promised them.

9:22 And Joshua called for them, and he spaem, saying,
Wherefore have ye beguiled us, saying, We are very far fron
ye dwell among us?  9:23 Now therefore ye are cursed, and there shalyou be freed from being bondmen, and hewers of wood and
drawers of wate house of my God.

9:24 And they answered Joshua, and said, Because iainly told
thy servants, how that the LORD thy God commanded his servato
give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the lafore you, therefore we were sore afraid of our lives because of
you, ae this thing.

9:25 And now, behold, we are in thine hand: as it seemed
right unto thee to do unto us, do.

9:26 And so did he unto them, and them out of the hand of
the children of Israel, that they slew them 7 And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water
fogregation, and for the altar of the LORD, even unto this
day, in the p he should choose.

10:1 Now it came to pass, when Adonizedec king of  had heard
how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he
to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how
tants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among
them; 10:2 feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city,
as one of the royal cbecause it was greater than Ai, and
all the men thereof were mighty.

ore Adonizedec king of Jerusalem, sent unto Hoham king of
Hebron, and m king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of
Lachish, and unto Debir kin, saying, 10:4 Come up unto me,
and help me, that we may smite Gibeon:th made peace with
Joshua and with the children of Israel.

10:5 Thereive kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem,
the king of Hebron, of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king
of Eglon, gathered themselve, and went up, they and all
their hosts, and encamped before Gibeon, ar against it.

10:6 And the men of Gibeon sent unto Joshua to the camp,
saying, Slack not thy hand from thy servants; come up to us quickly,ve us, and help us: for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell
in ths are gathered together against us.

10:7 So Joshua ascended from Gilg all the people of war
with him, and all the mighty men of valour.

10e LORD said unto Joshua, Fear them not: for I have
delivered them intod; there shall not a man of them stand
before thee.

10:9 Joshua thereunto them suddenly, and went up from Gilgal
all night.

10:10 And the mfited them before Israel, and slew them with
a great slaughter at Gibhased them along the way that goeth
up to Bethhoron, and smote them toand unto Makkedah.

10:11 And it came to pass, as they fled from beforand were
in the going down to Bethhoron, that the LORD cast down greatm heaven upon them unto Azekah, and they died: they were more which
diilstones than they whom the children of Israel slew with
the sword.

1spake Joshua to the LORD in the day when the LORD delivered
up the Amore the children of Israel, and he said in the
sight of Israel, Sun, sttill upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in
the valley of Ajalon.

10:13 And ood still, and the moon stayed, until the people
had avenged themselveir enemies. Is not this written in the
book of Jasher? So the sun stoo the midst of heaven, and
hasted not to go down about a whole day.

10there was no day like that before it or after it, that the
LORD hearke voice of a man: for the LORD fought for
Israel.

10:15 And Joshua ret all Israel with him, unto the camp to
Gilgal.

10:16 But these five kd, and hid themselves in a cave at
Makkedah.

10:17 And it was told Jong, The five kings are found hid in
a cave at Makkedah.

10:18 And Josoll great stones upon the mouth of the cave,
and set men by it for to  10:19 And stay ye not, but pursue
after your enemies, and smite the h them; suffer them not to
enter into their cities: for the LORD your Givered them
into your hand.

10:20 And it came to pass, when Joshua andren of Israel had
made an end of slaying them with a very great slaugthey
were consumed, that the rest which remained of them entered into
ies.

10:21 And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkeace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.

10:id Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out
those five kings ut of the cave.

10:23 And they did so, and brought forth those five khim out
of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the kimuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.

10:24 And it came then they brought out those kings unto
Joshua, that Joshua called for aof Israel, and said unto
the captains of the men of war which went wit near, put
your feet upon the necks of these kings. And they came neartheir feet upon the necks of them.

10:25 And Joshua said unto them, For be dismayed, be strong
and of good courage: for thus shall the LORD your enemies
against whom ye fight.

10:26 And afterward Joshua smote slew them, and hanged them
on five trees: and they were hanging upon ntil the evening.

10:27 And it came to pass at the time of the going e sun,
that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, am into the cave wherein they had been hid, and laid great stones in
thmouth, which remain until this very day.

10:28 And that day Joshua toh, and smote it with the edge of
the sword, and the king thereof he uttroyed, them, and all
the souls that were therein; he let none remain: to the
king of Makkedah as he did unto the king of Jericho.

10:29 Thassed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, unto
Libnah, and fought ibnah: 10:30 And the LORD delivered it
also, and the king thereof, intd of Israel; and he smote it
with the edge of the sword, and all the swere therein; he
let none remain in it; but did unto the king thereof nto
the king of Jericho.

10:31 And Joshua passed from Libnah, and allth him, unto
Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it: he
LORD delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel, which took it on th day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls
that in, according to all that he had done to Libnah.

10:33 Then Horam kin came up to help Lachish; and Joshua
smote him and his people, until h him none remaining.

10:34 And from Lachish Joshua passed unto Eglon,srael with
him; and they encamped against it, and fought against it: 1they took it on that day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and
all the souls that were therein he utterly destroyed that day,
according to all that he had done to Lachish.

10:36 And Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, unto
Hebron; and they fought against it: 10:37 And they took it, and smote
it with the edge of the sword, and the king thereof, and all the
cities thereof, and all the souls tha were therein; he left none
remaining, according to all that he had don; but destroyed
it utterly, and all the souls that were therein.

10:shua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir; and
fought against ind he took it, and the king thereof, and all
the cities thereof; and tthem with the edge of the sword,
and utterly destroyed all the souls ttherein; he left none
remaining: as he had done to Hebron, so he did tnd to the
king thereof; as he had done also to Libnah, and to her kingSo Joshua smote all the country of the hills, and of the south,
and of, and of the springs, and all their kings: he left none
remaining, butoyed all that breathed, as the LORD God of
Israel commanded.

10:41 Anua smote them from Kadeshbarnea even unto Gaza, and all
the country ofven unto Gibeon.

10:42 And all these kings and their land did Joshua time,
because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel.

10:43 And Josned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp to
Gilgal.

11:1 And it cas, when Jabin king of Hazor had heard those
things, that he sent to Jof Madon, and to the king of
Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph, 11:2e kings that were
on the north of the mountains, and of the plains souneroth,
and in the valley, and in the borders of Dor on the west, 11:3e Canaanite on the east and on the west, and to the Amorite, and the
Hd the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountains, and to
the Hivite on in the land of Mizpeh.

11:4 And they went out, they and all their h them, much
people, even as the sand that is upon the sea shore in muith
horses and chariots very many.

11:5 And when all these kings werether, they came and pitched
together at the waters of Merom, to fight  Israel.

11:6 And the LORD said unto Joshua, Be not afraid because ofr
to morrow about this time will I deliver them up all slain before
Is shalt hough their horses, and burn their chariots with
fire.

11:7 Soame, and all the people of war with him, against them
by the waters ofdenly; and they fell upon them.

11:8 And the LORD delivered them intoof Israel, who smote
them, and chased them unto great Zidon, and unto maim, and
unto the valley of Mizpeh eastward; and they smote them, unteft them none remaining.

11:9 And Joshua did unto them as the LORD ba houghed their
horses, and burnt their chariots with fire.

11:10 And that time turned back, and took Hazor, and smote
the king thereof withd: for Hazor beforetime was the head of
all those kingdoms.

11:11 Ande all the souls that were therein with the edge of
the sword, utterly g them: there was not any left to breathe:
and he burnt Hazor with firAnd all the cities of those kings, and all the kings of them,
did Joshand smote them with the edge of the sword, and he
utterly destroyed thes the servant of the LORD commanded.

11:13 But as for the cities thall in their strength, Israel
burned none of them, save Hazor only; thahua burn.

11:14 And all the spoil of these cities, and the cattle, thof Israel took for a prey unto themselves; but every man they smote
wie of the sword, until they had destroyed them, neither
left they any t
11:15 As the LORD commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses command
J so did Joshua; he left nothing undone of all that the LORD
commanded :16 So Joshua took all that land, the hills, and all the south
countrythe land of Goshen, and the valley, and the plain,
and the mountain ofand the valley of the same; 11:17 Even
from the mount Halak, that goetir, even unto Baalgad in the
valley of Lebanon under mount Hermon: and kings he took, and
smote them, and slew them.

11:18 Joshua made war e with all those kings.

11:19 There was not a city that made peace wildren of
Israel, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon: all otherk in battle.

11:20 For it was of the LORD to harden their hearts, thauld
come against Israel in battle, that he might destroy them utterly, they might have no favour, but that he might destroy them, as the
LORnded Moses.

11:21 And at that time came Joshua, and cut off the Anakirom the
mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all thains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel: Joshua
destroyed y with their cities.

11:22 There was none of the Anakims left in the e children
of Israel: only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, there rema23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORD
said ; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance unto Israel
according to theirby their tribes. And the land rested from
war.

12:1 Now these are the the land, which the children of Israel
smote, and possessed their lanther side Jordan toward the
rising of the sun, from the river Arnon unermon, and all the
plain on the east: 12:2 Sihon king of the Amorites, in
Heshbon, and ruled from Aroer, which is upon the bank of the river, and from the middle of the river, and from half Gilead, even
unto thk, which is the border of the children of Ammon;
12:3 And from the plasea of Chinneroth on the east, and unto
the sea of the plain, even theon the east, the way to
Bethjeshimoth; and from the south, under Ashdo12:4 And the
coast of Og king of Bashan, which was of the remnant of tthat dwelt at Ashtaroth and at Edrei, 12:5 And reigned in mount
Hermonalcah, and in all Bashan, unto the border of the
Geshurites and the Mates, and half Gilead, the border of Sihon
king of Heshbon.

12:6 Them the servant of the LORD and the children of Israel
smite: and Moses th of the LORD gave it for a possession unto
the Reubenites, and the Gadhe half tribe of Manasseh.

12:7 And these are the kings of the countrshua and the
children of Israel smote on this side Jordan on the west,gad
in the valley of Lebanon even unto the mount Halak, that goeth up hich Joshua gave unto the tribes of Israel for a possession
according visions; 12:8 In the mountains, and in the
valleys, and in the plains, springs, and in the wilderness,
and in the south country; the Hittiteites, and the
Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusithe
king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
 king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one; 12:11 The
king of Jane; the king of Lachish, one; 12:12 The king of
Eglon, one; the king one; 12:13 The king of Debir, one; the
king of Geder, one; 12:14 The kiah, one; the king of Arad,
one; 12:15 The king of Libnah, one; the kinam, one; 12:16
The king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one; 12: of
Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one; 12:18 The king of Aphek, oning of Lasharon, one; 12:19 The king of Madon, one; the king of
Hazor, The king of Shimronmeron, one; the king of Achshaph,
one; 12:21 The knach, one; the king of Megiddo, one; 12:22
The king of Kedesh, one; thJokneam of Carmel, one; 12:23 The
king of Dor in the coast of Dor, one of the nations of
Gilgal, one; 12:24 The king of Tirzah, one: all thety and
one.

13:1 Now Joshua was old and stricken in years; and the LOto
him, Thou art old and stricken in years, and there remaineth yet ved to be possessed.

13:2 This is the land that yet remaineth: all the the
Philistines, and all Geshuri, 13:3 From Sihor, which is before Egyto the borders of Ekron northward, which is counted to the
Canaanite:  of the Philistines; the Gazathites, and the
Ashdothites, the EshkalonGittites, and the Ekronites; also
the Avites: 13:4 From the south, allof the Canaanites, and
Mearah that is beside the Sidonians unto Aphek,ders of the
Amorites: 13:5 And the land of the Giblites, and all Leban
the sunrising, from Baalgad under mount Hermon unto the entering into3:6 All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon unto
Misrepho all the Sidonians, them will I drive out from
before the children of ly divide thou it by lot unto the
Israelites for an inheritance, as I ded thee.

13:7 Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance unto
tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh, 13:8 With whom the Reubenitesadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gave
them, beyond tward, even as Moses the servant of the LORD
gave them; 13:9 From Aroe upon the bank of the river Arnon,
and the city that is in the midst or, and all the plain of
Medeba unto Dibon; 13:10 And all the cities of of the
Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, unto the border of the chimmon; 13:11 And Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and
Maachathill mount Hermon, and all Bashan unto Salcah; 13:12
All the kingdom of an, which reigned in Ashtaroth and in
Edrei, who remained of the remnagiants: for these did Moses
smite, and cast them out.

13:13 Neverthelildren of Israel expelled not the Geshurites,
nor the Maachathites: buurites and the Maachathites dwell
among the Israelites until this day.ly unto the tribes of Levi he gave none inheritance; the
sacrifices ofGod of Israel made by fire are their
inheritance, as he said unto themnd Moses gave unto the tribe of the children of Reuben
inheritance acceir families.

13:16 And their coast was from Aroer, that is on the baiver
Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all thy Medeba; 13:17 Heshbon, and all her cities that are in the
plain; Dibmothbaal, and Bethbaalmeon, 13:18 And Jahaza, and
Kedemoth, and Mephaand Kirjathaim, and Sibmah, and
Zarethshahar in the mount of the valley Bethpeor, and
Ashdothpisgah, and Bethjeshimoth, 13:21 And all the cit
plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, which
reignon, whom Moses smote with the princes of Midian, Evi,
and Rekem, and Zr, and Reba, which were dukes of Sihon,
dwelling in the country.

13:2lso the son of Beor, the soothsayer, did the children of
Israel slay word among them that were slain by them.

13:23 And the border of the c Reuben was Jordan, and the
border thereof. This was the inheritance odren of Reuben
after their families, the cities and the villages there4 And Moses gave inheritance unto the tribe of Gad, even unto the
child according to their families.

13:25 And their coast was Jazer, and aies of Gilead, and
half the land of the children of Ammon, unto Aroer fore
Rabbah; 13:26 And from Heshbon unto Ramathmizpeh, and Betonim; annaim unto the border of Debir; 13:27 And in the valley,
Betharam, and , and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the
kingdom of Sihon king of Hedan and his border, even unto the
edge of the sea of Chinnereth on thede Jordan eastward.

13:28 This is the inheritance of the children of their
families, the cities, and their villages.

13:29 And Moses gave e unto the half tribe of Manasseh: and
this was the possession of the e of the children of Manasseh
by their families.

13:30 And their coas Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom
of Og king of Bashan, and all t Jair, which are in Bashan,
threescore cities: 13:31 And half Gilead, oth, and Edrei,
cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were pertaining
children of Machir the son of Manasseh, even to the one half of the
c Machir by their families.

13:32 These are the countries which Moses bute for
inheritance in the plains of Moab, on the other side Jordan, , eastward.

13:33 But unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inhere
LORD God of Israel was their inheritance, as he said unto them.

14:se are the countries which the children of Israel
inherited in the lann, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua
the son of Nun, and the heads hers of the tribes of the
children of Israel, distributed for inheritaem.

14:2 By lot was their inheritance, as the LORD commanded by the hes, for the nine tribes, and for the half tribe.

14:3 For Moses had gnheritance of two tribes and an half
tribe on the other side Jordan: b Levites he gave none
inheritance among them.

14:4 For the children oere two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim:
therefore they gave no part untotes in the land, save cities
to dwell in, with their suburbs for theird for their
substance.

14:5 As the LORD commanded Moses, so the childael did, and
they divided the land.

14:6 Then the children of Judah coshua in Gilgal: and Caleb
the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said unto knowest the
thing that the LORD said unto Moses the man of God concerd
thee in Kadeshbarnea.

14:7 Forty years old was I when Moses the serhe LORD sent me
from Kadeshbarnea to espy out the land; and I brought gain
as it was in mine heart.

14:8 Nevertheless my brethren that wentme made the heart of
the people melt: but I wholly followed the LORD m4:9 And Moses sware on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy
frodden shall be thine inheritance, and thy children’s for
ever, becaast wholly followed the LORD my God.

14:10 And now, behold, the LORD  me alive, as he said, these
forty and five years, even since the LORDis word unto Moses,
while the children of Israel wandered in the wilded now, lo,
I am this day fourscore and five years old.

14:11 As yet Iong this day as I was in the day that Moses
sent me: as my strength waen so is my strength now, for war,
both to go out, and to come in.

14herefore give me this mountain, whereof the LORD spake in
that day; fordest in that day how the Anakims were there,
and that the cities were fenced: if so be the LORD will be
with me, then I shall be able to dr, as the LORD said.

14:13 And Joshua blessed him, and gave unto Calebof Jephunneh
Hebron for an inheritance.

14:14 Hebron therefore becameitance of Caleb the son of
Jephunneh the Kenezite unto this day, becaue wholly followed
the LORD God of Israel.

14:15 And the name of Hebroe was Kirjatharba; which Arba was a
great man among the Anakims. And tad rest from war.

15:1 This then was the lot of the tribe of the chilah by
their families; even to the border of Edom the wilderness of Zin was the uttermost part of the south coast.

15:2 And their south bord the shore of the salt sea, from
the bay that looketh southward: 15:3 t out to the south side
to Maalehacrabbim, and passed along to Zin, and up on the
south side unto Kadeshbarnea, and passed along to Hezron, p
to Adar, and fetched a compass to Karkaa: 15:4 From thence it passedmon, and went out unto the river of Egypt; and the goings out
of that  at the sea: this shall be your south coast.

15:5 And the east bordersalt sea, even unto the end of
Jordan.

And their border in the north as from the bay of the sea at
the uttermost part of Jordan: 15:6 And twent up to
Bethhogla, and passed along by the north of Betharabah; ander
went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben: 15:7 And the borde toward Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward,
looking towa that is before the going up to Adummim, which
is on the south side ofr: and the border passed toward the
waters of Enshemesh, and the goingreof were at Enrogel: 15:8
And the border went up by the valley of theinnom unto the
south side of the Jebusite; the same is Jerusalem: and  went
up to the top of the mountain that lieth before the valley of Hiward, which is at the end of the valley of the giants northward:
15:9 rder was drawn from the top of the hill unto the
fountain of the wateroah, and went out to the cities of mount
Ephron; and the border was drlah, which is Kirjathjearim:
15:10 And the border compassed from Baalad unto mount Seir,
and passed along unto the side of mount Jearim, whisalon, on
the north side, and went down to Bethshemesh, and passed on :
15:11 And the border went out unto the side of Ekron northward: and
 was drawn to Shicron, and passed along to mount Baalah, and
went out el; and the goings out of the border were at the
sea.

15:12 And the w was to the great sea, and the coast thereof.

This is the coast of thn of Judah round about according to
their families.

15:13 And unto Caon of Jephunneh he gave a part among the
children of Judah, according mandment of the LORD to Joshua,
even the city of Arba the father of An city is Hebron.

15:14 And Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak,and
Ahiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak.

15:15 And he went up ththe inhabitants of Debir: and the name
of Debir before was Kirjathseph And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjathsepher, and taketh it, to
him e Achsah my daughter to wife.

15:17 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, thef Caleb, took it: and
he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.

15:18 And it came to pass, as she came unto him, that she moved him to
ask of her father a field: and she lighted off her ass; and Caleb said
unto her, What wouldest thou?  15:19 Who answered, Give me a blessing;
for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water.
And he gave her the upper springs, and the nether springs.

15:20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah
according to theiies.

15:21 And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Jd the coast of Edom southward were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,
15:22, and Dimonah, and Adadah, 15:23 And Kedesh, and Hazor,
and Ithnan, 15and Telem, and Bealoth, 15:25 And Hazor,
Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Heh is Hazor, 15:26 Amam, and
Shema, and Moladah, 15:27 And Hazargaddah,on, and Bethpalet,
15:28 And Hazarshual, and Beersheba, and Bizjothjahalah, and
Iim, and Azem, 15:30 And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah, 15Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah, 15:32 And Lebaoth, and Shilhim,
immon: all the cities are twenty and nine, with their
villages: 15:33 he valley, Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,
15:34 And Zanoah, and Engapuah, and Enam, 15:35 Jarmuth, and
Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah, 15:36 A, and Adithaim, and
Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with thes: 15:37
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdalgad, 15:38 And Dilean, and Mizoktheel, 15:39 Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon, 15:40 And Cabbon, and
 Kithlish, 15:41 And Gederoth, Bethdagon, and Naamah, and
Makkedah; siies with their villages: 15:42 Libnah, and Ether,
and Ashan, 15:43 Andnd Ashnah, and Nezib, 15:44 And Keilah,
and Achzib, and Mareshah; nineth their villages: 15:45
Ekron, with her towns and her villages: 15:46n even unto the
sea, all that lay near Ashdod, with their villages: 15 with
her towns and her villages, Gaza with her towns and her villagese river of Egypt, and the great sea, and the border thereof: 15:48
Andntains, Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh, 15:49 And Dannah,
and Kirjathsa is Debir, 15:50 And Anab, and Eshtemoh, and
Anim, 15:51 And Goshen, and Giloh; eleven cities with their
villages: 15:52 Arab, and Dumah, an15:53 And Janum, and
Bethtappuah, and Aphekah, 15:54 And Humtah, and K, which is
Hebron, and Zior; nine cities with their villages: 15:55 Ma,
and Ziph, and Juttah, 15:56 And Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,
15Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages: 15:58
Halhul, Bethedor, 15:59 And Maarath, and Bethanoth, and
Eltekon; six cities with tges: 15:60 Kirjathbaal, which is
Kirjathjearim, and Rabbah; two citiesr villages: 15:61 In
the wilderness, Betharabah, Middin, and Secacah, nd Nibshan,
and the city of Salt, and Engedi; six cities with their vi5:63 As for the Jebusites the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the children
ould not drive them out; but the Jebusites dwell with the
children of Jusalem unto this day.

16:1 And the lot of the children of Joseph felln by
Jericho, unto the water of Jericho on the east, to the wilderness up from Jericho throughout mount Bethel, 16:2 And goeth out from
Beth and passeth along unto the borders of Archi to Ataroth,
16:3 And goetward to the coast of Japhleti, unto the coast
of Bethhoron the nether,zer; and the goings out thereof are
at the sea.

16:4 So the children  Manasseh and Ephraim, took their
inheritance.

16:5 And the border ofren of Ephraim according to their
families was thus: even the border oheritance on the east
side was Atarothaddar, unto Bethhoron the upper;the border
went out toward the sea to Michmethah on the north side; anr went about eastward unto Taanathshiloh, and passed by it on the
easth; 16:7 And it went down from Janohah to Ataroth, and to
Naarath, and richo, and went out at Jordan.

16:8 The border went out from Tappuah to the river Kanah;
and the goings out thereof were at the sea. This iheritance of
the tribe of the children of Ephraim by their families.

he separate cities for the children of Ephraim were among
the inheritae children of Manasseh, all the cities with their
villages.

16:10 Ande not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but
the Canaanites dwell Ephraimites unto this day, and serve
under tribute.

17:1 There was a for the tribe of Manasseh; for he was the
firstborn of Joseph; to witir the firstborn of Manasseh, the
father of Gilead: because he was a mtherefore he had Gilead
and Bashan.

17:2 There was also a lot for thehe children of Manasseh by
their families; for the children of Abiezerhe children of
Helek, and for the children of Asriel, and for the chilShechem, and for the children of Hepher, and for the children of
Shemiwere the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph by
their familiest Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of
Machir, Manasseh, had no sons, but daughters: and these are
the names of his  Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and
Tirzah.

17:4 And they came neaeazar the priest, and before Joshua
the son of Nun, and before the pri, The LORD commanded
Moses to give us an inheritance among our brethreore
according to the commandment of the LORD he gave them an inheritanhe brethren of their father.

17:5 And there fell ten portions to Manaand of
Gilead and Bashan, which were on the other side Jordan; 17:6 Behe daughters of Manasseh had an inheritance among his sons: and the
resseh’s sons had the land of Gilead.

17:7 And the coast of Manasseh Asher to Michmethah, that
lieth before Shechem; and the border went al right hand unto
the inhabitants of Entappuah.

17:8 Now Manasseh had f Tappuah: but Tappuah on the border
of Manasseh belonged to the childaim; 17:9 And the coast
descended unto the river Kanah, southward of t these cities
of Ephraim are among the cities of Manasseh: the coast o
also was on the north side of the river, and the outgoings of it werea: 17:10 Southward it was Ephraim’s, and northward it was
Manassehhe sea is his border; and they met together in Asher
on the north, andar on the east.

17:11 And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher Bethser
towns, and Ibleam and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and hernd the inhabitants of Endor and her towns, and the inhabitants
of Taanr towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and her
towns, even three coun:12 Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitants
oities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.

17:13 Yet it came when the children of Israel were waxen
strong, that they put the Cana tribute, but did not utterly
drive them out.

17:14 And the children spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hast
thou given me but one lot and one o inherit, seeing I am a
great people, forasmuch as the LORD hath blesherto?  17:15
And Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, thee up
to the wood country, and cut down for thyself there in the land ozites and of the giants, if mount Ephraim be too narrow for thee.

17:e children of Joseph said, The hill is not enough for us:
and all the  that dwell in the land of the valley have
chariots of iron, both theyf Bethshean and her towns, and
they who are of the valley of Jezreel.
 Joshua spake unto the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim and
to Manasse Thou art a great people, and hast great power:
thou shalt not have ony: 17:18 But the mountain shall be
thine; for it is a wood, and thou st down: and the outgoings
of it shall be thine: for thou shalt drive onaanites, though
they have iron chariots, and though they be strong.

he whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled
together at d set up the tabernacle of the congregation
there. And the land was sure them.

18:2 And there remained among the children of Israel seven tch had not yet received their inheritance.

18:3 And Joshua said unto en of Israel, How long are ye
slack to go to possess the land, which td of your fathers
hath given you?  18:4 Give out from among you three ach
tribe: and I will send them, and they shall rise, and go through tnd describe it according to the inheritance of them; and they
shall coo me.

18:5 And they shall divide it into seven parts: Judah shall abiir coast on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their
cohe north.

18:6 Ye shall therefore describe the land into seven parts,g
the description hither to me, that I may cast lots for you here befoD our God.

18:7 But the Levites have no part among you; for the priese
LORD is their inheritance: and Gad, and Reuben, and half the tribe o, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan on the east,
which Mosvant of the LORD gave them.

18:8 And the men arose, and went away: anharged them that
went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk throug, and
describe it, and come again to me, that I may here cast lots fore the LORD in Shiloh.

18:9 And the men went and passed through the lascribed it by
cities into seven parts in a book, and came again to Jose
host at Shiloh.

18:10 And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh befor: and
there Joshua divided the land unto the children of Israel accordeir divisions.

18:11 And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjup
according to their families: and the coast of their lot came forth
e children of Judah and the children of Joseph.

18:12 And their bordeorth side was from Jordan; and the
border went up to the side of Jerich side, and went up
through the mountains westward; and the goings oute at the
wilderness of Bethaven.

18:13 And the border went over from ard Luz, to the side of
Luz, which is Bethel, southward; and the borded to
Atarothadar, near the hill that lieth on the south side of the nehoron.

18:14 And the border was drawn thence, and compassed the cornesea southward, from the hill that lieth before Bethhoron southward;
angs out thereof were at Kirjathbaal, which is
Kirjathjearim, a city of en of Judah: this was the west
quarter.

18:15 And the south quarter whe end of Kirjathjearim, and the
border went out on the west, and wentthe well of waters of
Nephtoah: 18:16 And the border came down to the  mountain
that lieth before the valley of the son of Hinnom, and which
valley of the giants on the north, and descended to the valley of
Hine side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to Enrogel,
18:17 And wasm the north, and went forth to Enshemesh, and
went forth toward Gelilos over against the going up of
Adummim, and descended to the stone of on of Reuben, 18:18
And passed along toward the side over against Arabd, and
went down unto Arabah: 18:19 And the border passed along to theBethhoglah northward: and the outgoings of the border were at the
northe salt sea at the south end of Jordan: this was the
south coast.

18:rdan was the border of it on the east side. This was the
inheritance odren of Benjamin, by the coasts thereof round
about, according to thei.

18:21 Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin
accorheir families were Jericho, and Bethhoglah, and the
valley of Keziz, 1etharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, 18:23
And Avim, and Pharah, and O24 And Chepharhaammonai, and
Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their: 18:25 Gibeon, and
Ramah, and Beeroth, 18:26 And Mizpeh, and Chephirazah, 18:27
And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah, 18:28 And Zelah, Eleph,i, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities with
thei This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin
according to thei.

19:1 And the second lot came forth to Simeon, even for the tribe ofen of Simeon according to their families: and their
inheritance was wiheritance of the children of Judah.

19:2 And they had in their inherieba, and Sheba, and
Moladah, 19:3 And Hazarshual, and Balah, and Azem,ltolad,
and Bethul, and Hormah, 19:5 And Ziklag, and Bethmarcaboth, anh, 19:6 And Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities and
their villaAin, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities
and their villages: 19:the villages that were round about
these cities to Baalathbeer, Ramathth. This is the
inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon accheir
families.

19:9 Out of the portion of the children of Judah was tance
of the children of Simeon: for the part of the children of Judah ch for them: therefore the children of Simeon had their
inheritance wiheritance of them.

19:10 And the third lot came up for the children occording
to their families: and the border of their inheritance was un19:11 And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, and
reacheheth, and reached to the river that is before
Jokneam; 19:12 And turneid eastward toward the sunrising
unto the border of Chislothtabor, andh out to Daberath, and
goeth up to Japhia, 19:13 And from thence passeg on the east
to Gittahhepher, to Ittahkazin, and goeth out to RemmonmNeah; 19:14 And the border compasseth it on the north side to
Hannatho outgoings thereof are in the valley of Jiphthahel:
19:15 And Kattath,lal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and
Bethlehem: twelve cities with their 
19:16 This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according tomilies, these cities with their villages.

19:17 And the fourth lot cassachar, for the children of
Issachar according to their families.

19eir border was toward Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
19:19 And Hnd Shihon, and Anaharath, 19:20 And Rabbith, and
Kishion, and Abez, 19meth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and
Bethpazzez; 19:22 And the coast o Tabor, and Shahazimah, and
Bethshemesh; and the outgoings of their bat Jordan: sixteen
cities with their villages.

19:23 This is the inhe the tribe of the children of Issachar
according to their families, thd their villages.

19:24 And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of tn of
Asher according to their families.

19:25 And their border was He Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,
19:26 And Alammelech, and Amad, and Mireacheth to Carmel
westward, and to Shihorlibnath; 19:27 And turneth tsunrising
to Bethdagon, and reacheth to Zebulun, and to the valley of 
toward the north side of Bethemek, and Neiel, and goeth out to Cabul
 hand, 19:28 And Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah,
even unto g; 19:29 And then the coast turneth to Ramah, and
to the strong city Tye coast turneth to Hosah; and the
outgoings thereof are at the sea fro to Achzib: 19:30 Ummah
also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty and two citheir villages.

19:31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the chilher
according to their families, these cities with their villages.

19th lot came out to the children of Naphtali, even for the
children of ccording to their families.

19:33 And their coast was from Heleph, fr Zaanannim, and
Adami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, unto Lakum; and the outgoinwere
at Jordan: 19:34 And then the coast turneth westward to Aznothtaboeth out from thence to Hukkok, and reacheth to Zebulun on the
south sreacheth to Asher on the west side, and to Judah upon
Jordan toward thg.

19:35 And the fenced cities are Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath,ereth, 19:36 And Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor, 19:37 And Kedesh,
and Enhazor, 19:38 And Iron, and Migdalel, Horem, and
Bethanath, and Bethshneteen cities with their villages.

19:39 This is the inheritance of tf the children of Naphtali
according to their families, the cities andages.

19:40 And the seventh lot came out for the tribe of the childreccording to their families.

19:41 And the coast of their inheritance , and Eshtaol, and
Irshemesh, 19:42 And Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Je43 And
Elon, and Thimnathah, and Ekron, 19:44 And Eltekeh, and GibbethBaalath, 19:45 And Jehud, and Beneberak, and Gathrimmon, 19:46 And
Mej Rakkon, with the border before Japho.

19:47 And the coast of the chian went out too little for
them: therefore the children of Dan went upagainst Leshem,
and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, sed
it, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dather.

19:48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of ing to their families, these cities with their villages.

19:49 When tade an end of dividing the land for inheritance
by their coasts, the cIsrael gave an inheritance to Joshua
the son of Nun among them: 19:50  to the word of the LORD
they gave him the city which he asked, even Tah in mount
Ephraim: and he built the city, and dwelt therein.

19:51 These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua
the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the
children of Israel, divided for an inheritance by lot in Shiloh before
the LORD, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So they
made an end of dividing the country.

20:1 The LORD also spake unto Joshua, saying, 20:2 Speak to the
children of Israel, saying, Appoint out for youf refuge,
whereof I spake unto you by the hand of Moses: 20:3 That theat killeth any person unawares and unwittingly may flee thither: and
tbe your refuge from the avenger of blood.

20:4 And when he that doth one of those cities shall stand
at the entering of the gate of the citll declare his cause
in the ears of the elders of that city, they shalm into the
city unto them, and give him a place, that he may dwell amo20:5 And if the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall notthe slayer up into his hand; because he smote his neighbour
unwittinglted him not beforetime.

20:6 And he shall dwell in that city, until hfore the
congregation for judgment, and until the death of the high prshall be in those days: then shall the slayer return, and come unto
hi, and unto his own house, unto the city from whence he
fled.

20:7 Andnted Kedesh in Galilee in mount Naphtali, and
Shechem in mount Ephraimba, which is Hebron, in the
mountain of Judah.

20:8 And on the other e Jordan by Jericho eastward, they assigned
Bezer in the wilderness upain out of the tribe of Reuben, and
Ramoth in Gilead out of the tribe d Golan in Bashan out of
the tribe of Manasseh.

20:9 These were the cinted for all the children of Israel,
and for the stranger that sojour them, that whosoever
killeth any person at unawares might flee thithe die by the
hand of the avenger of blood, until he stood before the co.

21:1 Then came near the heads of the fathers of the Levites unto
Elpriest, and unto Joshua the son of Nun, and unto the heads
of the fathtribes of the children of Israel; 21:2 And they
spake unto them at Shiland of Canaan, saying, The LORD
commanded by the hand of Moses to givs to dwell in, with the
suburbs thereof for our cattle.

21:3 And the f Israel gave unto the Levites out of their
inheritance, at the commane LORD, these cities and their
suburbs.

21:4 And the lot came out fories of the Kohathites: and the
children of Aaron the priest, which werLevites, had by lot
out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe ofd out of
the tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.

21:5 And the rest ofdren of Kohath had by lot out of the
families of the tribe of Ephraim, the tribe of Dan, and out
of the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the
tribe of and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe
of Naphtali, and  half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen
cities.

21:7 The childreni by their families had out of the tribe of
Reuben, and out of the tri and out of the tribe of Zebulun,
twelve cities.

21:8 And the childrel gave by lot unto the Levites these
cities with their suburbs, as thended by the hand of Moses.

21:9 And they gave out of the tribe of thef Judah, and out
of the tribe of the children of Simeon, these cities here
mentioned by name.

21:10 Which the children of Aaron, being of ts of the
Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi, had: for theirsrst lot.

21:11 And they gave them the city of Arba the father of Anakty is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, with the suburbs thereof
rt it.

21:12 But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, gav Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.

21:13 Thus they gave ildren of Aaron the priest Hebron with
her suburbs, to be a city of rehe slayer; and Libnah with
her suburbs, 21:14 And Jattir with her subushtemoa with her
suburbs, 21:15 And Holon with her suburbs, and Debir uburbs,
21:16 And Ain with her suburbs, and Juttah with her suburbs, aesh with her suburbs; nine cities out of those two tribes.

21:17 And tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with her suburbs, Geba
with her suburbs, 21:th with her suburbs, and Almon with her
suburbs; four cities.

21:19 Aies of the children of Aaron, the priests, were
thirteen cities with trbs.

21:20 And the families of the children of Kohath, the Levites whed of the children of Kohath, even they had the cities of their
lot ouribe of Ephraim.

21:21 For they gave them Shechem with her suburbs inraim, to
be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Gezer with her suburbd Kibzaim with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs; four
citiend out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with her suburbs, Gibbethon
with hs, 21:24 Aijalon with her suburbs, Gathrimmon with her
suburbs; four c:25 And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with her suburbs,
anon with her suburbs; two cities.

21:26 All the cities were ten with ts for the families of
the children of Kohath that remained.

21:27 Andchildren of Gershon, of the families of the
Levites, out of the other of Manasseh they gave Golan in
Bashan with her suburbs, to be a city oor the slayer; and
Beeshterah with her suburbs; two cities.

21:28 Ande tribe of Issachar, Kishon with her suburbs,
Dabareh with her suburbsrmuth with her suburbs, Engannim
with her suburbs; four cities.

21:30f the tribe of Asher, Mishal with her suburbs, Abdon
with her suburbs,lkath with her suburbs, and Rehob with her
suburbs; four cities.

21:3f the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with her
suburbs, to be a cthe slayer; and Hammothdor with
her suburbs, and Kartan with her subur cities.

21:33 All the cities of the Gershonites according to their fre thirteen cities with their suburbs.

21:34 And unto the families ofdren of Merari, the rest of the
Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, th her suburbs, and
Kartah with her suburbs, 21:35 Dimnah with her subal with
her suburbs; four cities.

21:36 And out of the tribe of Reube with her suburbs, and
Jahazah with her suburbs, 21:37 Kedemoth with h, and
Mephaath with her suburbs; four cities.

21:38 And out of the trf Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs,
to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Mahanaim with her suburbs,
21:39 Heshbon with her suburbs, Jazer with her suburbs; four cities in
all.

21:40 So all the cities for the children of Merari by their families,
which were remaining of the families of the Levites, were by their lot
twelve cities.

21:41 All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the
children were forty and eight cities with their suburbs.

21:42 These cities wey one with their suburbs round about them:
thus were all these cities.nd the LORD gave unto Israel all the land which he sware to
give unto ers; and they possessed it, and dwelt therein.

21:44 And the LORD gav round about, according to all that
he sware unto their fathers: and t not a man of all their
enemies before them; the LORD delivered all ths into their
hand.

21:45 There failed not ought of any good thing whiD had
spoken unto the house of Israel; all came to pass.

22:1 Then Jo the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half
tribe of Manasseh, 22:2unto them, Ye have kept all that
Moses the servant of the LORD commandnd have obeyed my voice
in all that I commanded you: 22:3 Ye have not ethren these
many days unto this day, but have kept the charge of the 
of the LORD your God.

22:4 And now the LORD your God hath given rest brethren, as
he promised them: therefore now return ye, and get you uents, and unto the land of your possession, which Moses the servant
ofgave you on the other side Jordan.

22:5 But take diligent heed to do ment and the law, which
Moses the servant of the LORD charged you, to RD your God,
and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandmentsleave unto him, and to serve him with all your heart and with all
your6 So Joshua blessed them, and sent them away: and they went unto
their:7 Now to the one half of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had given
possesshan: but unto the other half thereof gave Joshua
among their brethrenide Jordan westward. And when Joshua
sent them away also unto their tehe blessed them, 22:8 And
he spake unto them, saying, Return with muchnto your tents,
and with very much cattle, with silver, and with gold,brass,
and with iron, and with very much raiment: divide the spoil of s with your brethren.

22:9 And the children of Reuben and the childrend the half
tribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the childrenout of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to go unto the country
 to the land of their possession, whereof they were
possessed, accordiord of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

22:10 And when they came unto t of Jordan, that are in the
land of Canaan, the children of Reuben andren of Gad and the
half tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by Jord altar
to see to.

22:11 And the children of Israel heard say, Behold,ren of
Reuben and the children of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh h an altar over against the land of Canaan, in the borders of
Jordan, age of the children of Israel.

22:12 And when the children of Israel h the whole
congregation of the children of Israel gathered themselves 
Shiloh, to go up to war against them.

22:13 And the children of Israto the children of Reuben, and
to the children of Gad, and to the halfManasseh, into the
land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the pri And with
him ten princes, of each chief house a prince throughout all of Israel; and each one was an head of the house of their
fathers amousands of Israel.

22:15 And they came unto the children of Reuben, anren
of Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, unto the land of Gilead spake with them, saying, 22:16 Thus saith the whole
congregation of that trespass is this that ye have committed
against the God of Israel,way this day from following the
LORD, in that ye have builded you an a ye might rebel this
day against the LORD?  22:17 Is the iniquity of Pittle for
us, from which we are not cleansed until this day, although  plague in the congregation of the LORD, 22:18 But that ye must turn
aday from following the LORD? and it will be, seeing ye rebel
to day ag LORD, that to morrow he will be wroth with the
whole congregation of 2:19 Notwithstanding, if the land of your possession be unclean, then
r unto the land of the possession of the LORD, wherein the
LORD’s taelleth, and take possession among us: but rebel
not against the LORD, against us, in building you an altar
beside the altar of the LORD our  Did not Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the accursed
thinth fell on all the congregation of Israel? and that man
perished not ainiquity.

22:21 Then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad a
tribe of Manasseh answered, and said unto the heads of the thousands
 22:22 The LORD God of gods, the LORD God of gods, he
knoweth, and Isrll know; if it be in rebellion, or if in
transgression against the LORs not this day,) 22:23 That we
have built us an altar to turn from fol LORD, or if to offer
thereon burnt offering or meat offering, or if teace
offerings thereon, let the LORD himself require it; 22:24 And if t rather done it for fear of this thing, saying, In time to
come your ight speak unto our children, saying, What have ye
to do with the LORDrael?  22:25 For the LORD hath made
Jordan a border between us and youren of Reuben and children
of Gad; ye have no part in the LORD: so shaldren make our
children cease from fearing the LORD.

22:26 Therefore et us now prepare to build us an altar, not
for burnt offering, nor fo: 22:27 But that it may be a
witness between us, and you, and our geneter us, that we
might do the service of the LORD before him with our bings,
and with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings; that youray not say to our children in time to come, Ye have no part
in the LORherefore said we, that it shall be, when they should so say to
us or tenerations in time to come, that we may say again,
Behold the pattern tar of the LORD, which our fathers made,
not for burnt offerings, nor ices; but it is a witness
between us and you.

22:29 God forbid that wbel against the LORD, and turn this
day from following the LORD, to buar for burnt offerings,
for meat offerings, or for sacrifices, beside  of the LORD
our God that is before his tabernacle.

22:30 And when Ph priest, and the princes of the
congregation and heads of the thousandl which were with him,
heard the words that the children of Reuben andren of Gad
and the children of Manasseh spake, it pleased them.

22:31ehas the son of Eleazar the priest said unto the
children of Reuben, achildren of Gad, and to the children of
Manasseh, This day we perceiveLORD is among us, because ye
have not committed this trespass against now ye have
delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of the LO2 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the princes,
returnechildren of Reuben, and from the children of Gad,
out of the land of G the land of Canaan, to the children of
Israel, and brought them word 33 And the thing pleased the children of Israel; and the children
of Ied God, and did not intend to go up against them in
battle, to destroywherein the children of Reuben and Gad
dwelt.

22:34 And the children and the children of Gad called the
altar Ed: for it shall be a witnesss that the LORD is God.

23:1 And it came to pass a long time after th had given
rest unto Israel from all their enemies round about, that Jd
old and stricken in age.

23:2 And Joshua called for all Israel, and elders, and for
their heads, and for their judges, and for their offiaid
unto them, I am old and stricken in age: 23:3 And ye have seen allLORD your God hath done unto all these nations because of
you; for theod is he that hath fought for you.

23:4 Behold, I have divided unto y these nations that remain,
to be an inheritance for your tribes, fromith all the
nations that I have cut off, even unto the great sea westwAnd the LORD your God, he shall expel them from before you, and
drive out of your sight; and ye shall possess their land, as
the LORD your Gomised unto you.

23:6 Be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to  is
written in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not aside
th the right hand or to the left; 23:7 That ye come not
among these natihat remain among you; neither make mention
of the name of their gods, to swear by them, neither serve
them, nor bow yourselves unto them: 23eave unto the LORD your
God, as ye have done unto this day.

23:9 For th driven out from before you great nations and
strong: but as for youath been able to stand before you unto
this day.

23:10 One man of youe a thousand: for the LORD your God, he
it is that fighteth for you, aromised you.

23:11 Take good heed therefore unto yourselves, that ye ORD
your God.

23:12 Else if ye do in any wise go back, and cleave untant
of these nations, even these that remain among you, and shall makes with them, and go in unto them, and they to you: 23:13 Know
for a ceat the LORD your God will no more drive out any of
these nations from ; but they shall be snares and traps unto
you, and scourges in your sihorns in your eyes, until ye
perish from off this good land which the  God hath given you.

23:14 And, behold, this day I am going the way oearth: and
ye know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not ath failed of all the good things which the LORD your God spake
concerll are come to pass unto you, and not one thing hath
failed thereof.

refore it shall come to pass, that as all good things are
come upon yohe LORD your God promised you; so shall the LORD
bring upon you all evuntil he have destroyed you from off
this good land which the LORD youh given you.

23:16 When ye have transgressed the covenant of the LORD
which he commanded you, and have gone and served other gods, and bowees to them; then shall the anger of the LORD be kindled
against you, all perish quickly from off the good land which
he hath given unto you.Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and
called for thf Israel, and for their heads, and for their
judges, and for their offd they presented themselves before
God.

24:2 And Joshua said unto alle, Thus saith the LORD God of
Israel, Your fathers dwelt on the other  flood in old time,
even Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father  and they
served other gods.

24:3 And I took your father Abraham from side of the flood,
and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, andd his
seed, and gave him Isaac.

24:4 And I gave unto Isaac Jacob and I gave unto Esau mount
Seir, to possess it; but Jacob and his childreninto Egypt.

24:5 I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, aco
that which I did among them: and afterward I brought you out.

24:6 d I brought your fathers out of Egypt: and ye came unto the
sea; and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and
horsemen unto the Red sea.

24:7 And when they cried unto the LORD, he put darkness between you
and the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them, and covered them;
and your eyes have seen what I have done in Egypt: and ye dwelt in the
wilderness a long season.

24:8 And I brought you into thnd of the Amorites, which dwelt on
the other side Jordan; and they fouu: and I gave them into
your hand, that ye might possess their land; aroyed them from
before you.

24:9 Then Balak the son of Zippor, king orose and warred
against Israel, and sent and called Balaam the son of rse
you: 24:10 But I would not hearken unto Balaam; therefore he blessl: so I delivered you out of his hand.

24:11 And you went over Jordan unto Jericho: and the men of
Jericho fought against you, the AmoritesPerizzites, and the
Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Girgashites,s, and
the Jebusites; and I delivered them into your hand.

24:12 And t before you, which drave them out from
before you, even the two kingse Amorites; but not with thy
sword, nor with thy bow.

24:13 And I hav a land for which ye did not labour, and
cities which ye built not, anl in them; of the vineyards and
oliveyards which ye planted not do ye  Now therefore fear the LORD, and serve him in sincerity and in
truth:way the gods which your fathers served on the other
side of the flood,ypt; and serve ye the LORD.

24:15 And if it seem evil unto you to serD, choose you this
day whom ye will serve; whether the gods which yourerved
that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amo whose land ye dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve the
LO And the people answered and said, God forbid that we should
forsake to serve other gods; 24:17 For the LORD our God, he
it is that brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt,
from the house of bondage, and wthose great signs in our
sight, and preserved us in all the way wherei and among all
the people through whom we passed: 24:18 And the LORD dom
before us all the people, even the Amorites which dwelt in the lande will we also serve the LORD; for he is our God.

24:19 And Joshua sa people, Ye cannot serve the LORD: for
he is an holy God; he is a jeale will not forgive your
transgressions nor your sins.

24:20 If ye forORD, and serve strange gods, then he will
turn and do you hurt, and co after that he hath done you
good.

24:21 And the people said unto Josbut we will serve the
LORD.

24:22 And Joshua said unto the people, Yeesses against
yourselves that ye have chosen you the LORD, to serve hiy
said, We are witnesses.

24:23 Now therefore put away, said he, the ds which are
among you, and incline your heart unto the LORD God of Is24 And the people said unto Joshua, The LORD our God will we serve,
ane will we obey.

24:25 So Joshua made a covenant with the people that t them
a statute and an ordinance in Shechem.

24:26 And Joshua wrote  in the book of the law of God, and
took a great stone, and set it up  an oak, that was by the
sanctuary of the LORD.

24:27 And Joshua saidhe people, Behold, this stone shall be
a witness unto us; for it hath the words of the LORD which
he spake unto us: it shall be therefore a o you, lest ye
deny your God.

24:28 So Joshua let the people depart, to his inheritance.

24:29 And it came to pass after these things, thae son of
Nun, the servant of the LORD, died, being an hundred and ten 
24:30 And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in
Timnathch is in mount Ephraim, on the north side of the hill
of Gaash.

24:31 served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the
days of the elderrlived Joshua, and which had known all the
works of the LORD, that he or Israel.

24:32 And the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israe up
out of Egypt, buried they in Shechem, in a parcel of ground which
t of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for an hundred
pieces of d it became the inheritance of the children of
Joseph.

24:33 And Elean of Aaron died; and they buried him in a hill
that pertained to Phineon, which was given him in mount
Ephraim.




The Book of Judges


1:1er the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children
of Israel asRD, saying, Who shall go up for us against the
Canaanites first, to fi them?  1:2 And the LORD said, Judah
shall go up: behold, I have delivland into his hand.

1:3 And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come into my
lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise h thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.

1:4 And Judah went up; RD delivered the Canaanites and the
Perizzites into their hand: and th them in Bezek ten
thousand men.

1:5 And they found Adonibezek in Bezey fought against him,
and they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzites Adonibezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him,
and cut mbs and his great toes.

1:7 And Adonibezek said, Threescore and ten king their thumbs
and their great toes cut off, gathered their meat und: as I
have done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerd there he died.

1:8 Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerd
taken it, and smitten it with the edge of the sword, and set the cit

1:9 And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against tes, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the south, and in the
valley.

dah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: (now
the name ofore was Kirjatharba:) and they slew Sheshai, and
Ahiman, and Talmai.

om thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the
name of De was Kirjathsepher: 1:12 And Caleb said, He that
smiteth Kirjathsepherh it, to him will I give Achsah my
daughter to wife.

1:13 And Othnielf Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother, took it:
and he gave him Achsah hi to wife.

1:14 And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she mo
ask of her father a field: and she lighted from off her ass; and Caleo her, What wilt thou?  1:15 And she said unto him, Give me a
blessinghast given me a south land; give me also springs of
water. And Caleb g upper springs and the nether springs.

1:16 And the children of the Kses’ father in law, went up out
of the city of palm trees with the c Judah into the
wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; people.

1:17 And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew td it. And the
name of the city was called Hormah.

1:18 Also Judah toohe coast thereof, and Askelon with the
coast thereof, and Ekron with thereof.

1:19 And the LORD was with Judah; and he drave out the inhabie mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley,
bechad chariots of iron.

1:20 And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses he expelled
thence the three sons of Anak.

1:21 And the children of Bd not drive out the Jebusites that
inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusiwith the children of
Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.

1:22 And th Joseph, they also went up against Bethel: and
the LORD was with them. the house of Joseph sent to descry Bethel. (Now the name of
the city s Luz.)  1:24 And the spies saw a man come forth out
of the city, and unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, the
entrance into the city, and we wiee mercy.

1:25 And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, thhe city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all
hi

1:26 And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a citled the name thereof Luz: which is the name thereof unto this
day.

1: did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Bethshean and
her towns, noand her towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and
her towns, nor the inhabIbleam and her towns, nor the
inhabitants of Megiddo and her towns: bunaanites would dwell
in that land.

1:28 And it came to pass, when Isrtrong, that they put the
Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly drt.

1:29 Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gethe Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.

1:30 Neither did Zebulun dre inhabitants of Kitron, nor the
inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaa among them, and
became tributaries.

1:31 Neither did Asher drive outtants of Accho, nor the
inhabitants of Zidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achf Helbah, nor
of Aphik, nor of Rehob: 1:32 But the Asherites dwelt amoanites, the inhabitants of the land: for they did not drive them
out.
her did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Bethshemesh,
nor the inh Bethanath; but he dwelt among the Canaanites,
the inhabitants of the rtheless the inhabitants of
Bethshemesh and of Bethanath became tribut them.

1:34 And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mounthey would not suffer them to come down to the valley: 1:35 But
the Amld dwell in mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim:
yet the hand of tf Joseph prevailed, so that they became
tributaries.

1:36 And the coamorites was from the going up to Akrabbim,
from the rock, and upward.
n angel of the LORD came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said,
I made yo out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the land
which I sware unto y; and I said, I will never break my
covenant with you.

2:2 And ye shao league with the inhabitants of this land; ye
shall throw down their t ye have not obeyed my voice: why
have ye done this?  2:3 Wherefore Ill not drive them
out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in  and
their gods shall be a snare unto you.

2:4 And it came to pass, wngel of the LORD spake these words
unto all the children of Israel, thople lifted up their
voice, and wept.

2:5 And they called the name of Bochim: and they sacrificed
there unto the LORD.

2:6 And when Joshuahe people go, the children of Israel went
every man unto his inheritansess the land.

2:7 And the people served the LORD all the days of Josll the
days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the gs of the LORD, that he did for Israel.

2:8 And Joshua the son of Nun,t of the LORD, died, being an
hundred and ten years old.

2:9 And theym in the border of his inheritance in
Timnathheres, in the mount of Epthe north side of the hill
Gaash.

2:10 And also all that generation wed unto their fathers:
and there arose another generation after them, not the
LORD, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.

2:11 Andren of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD, and
served Baalim: 2hey forsook the LORD God of their fathers,
which brought them out of tf Egypt, and followed other gods,
of the gods of the people that were t them, and bowed
themselves unto them, and provoked the LORD to angerd they forsook the LORD, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.

2:14 And the he LORD was hot against Israel, and he
delivered them into the hands o that spoiled them, and he
sold them into the hands of their enemies rabout, so that they
could not any longer stand before their enemies.

ersoever they went out, the hand of the LORD was against
them for evilORD had said, and as the LORD had sworn unto
them: and they were greatssed.

2:16 Nevertheless the LORD raised up judges, which delivered thhe hand of those that spoiled them.

2:17 And yet they would not hearkir judges, but they went a
whoring after other gods, and bowed themselhem: they turned
quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in,he
commandments of the LORD; but they did not so.

2:18 And when the Led them up judges, then the LORD was with
the judge, and delivered thehe hand of their enemies all the
days of the judge: for it repented thuse of their groanings
by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed:19 And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned,
ted themselves more than their fathers, in following other
gods to serd to bow down unto them; they ceased not from
their own doings, nor frubborn way.

2:20 And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel; an
Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I
commanathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice; 2:21 I
also will not henve out any from before them of the nations
which Joshua left when he dThat through them I may prove
Israel, whether they will keep the way oD to walk therein, as
their fathers did keep it, or not.

2:23 TherefoD left those nations, without driving them out
hastily; neither delivem into the hand of Joshua.

3:1 Now these are the nations which the LO prove Israel by
them, even as many of Israel as had not known all thenaan;
3:2 Only that the generations of the children of Israel might knch them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof; 3:3
Namords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the
Sidonians, antes that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount
Baalhermon unto the enteriamath.

3:4 And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether theearken unto the commandments of the LORD, which he commanded their
fate hand of Moses.

3:5 And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaaites,
and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Hivites, and Jebusites: 3:6 An their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to
their served their gods.

3:7 And the children of Israel did evil in the sigORD, and
forgat the LORD their God, and served Baalim and the groves.
efore the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he
sold them id of Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and
the children of Israelushanrishathaim eight years.

3:9 And when the children of Israel crieLORD, the LORD
raised up a deliverer to the children of Israel, who deeven Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother.

3:10 And thof the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel,
and went out to war: RD delivered Chushanrishathaim king of
Mesopotamia into his hand; and revailed against
Chushanrishathaim.

3:11 And the land had rest forty Othniel the son of Kenaz
died.

3:12 And the children of Israel did evn the sight of the
LORD: and the LORD strengthened Eglon the king of Mt Israel,
because they had done evil in the sight of the LORD.

3:13 Ahered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and
went and smote Ispossessed the city of palm trees.

3:14 So the children of Israel serve king of Moab eighteen
years.

3:15 But when the children of Israel che LORD, the LORD
raised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, a , a man
lefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present uthe king of Moab.

3:16 But Ehud made him a dagger which had two edgesit
length; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was
a very f18 And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away
the t bare the present.

3:19 But he himself turned again from the quarrie by
Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king: who salence. And all that stood by him went out from him.

3:20 And Ehud cam; and he was sitting in a summer parlour,
which he had for himself aloud said, I have a message from
God unto thee.

And he arose out of his
3:21 And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his
r, and thrust it into his belly: 3:22 And the haft also went
in after tand the fat closed upon the blade, so that he
could not draw the daggeis belly; and the dirt came out.

3:23 Then Ehud went forth through thnd shut the doors of the
parlour upon him, and locked them.

3:24 Whene out, his servants came; and when they saw that,
behold, the doors ofr were locked, they said, Surely he
covereth his feet in his summer ch25 And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened
nots of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and opened
them: and, beh lord was fallen down dead on the earth.

3:26 And Ehud escaped while ed, and passed beyond the
quarries, and escaped unto Seirath.

3:27 An pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in
the mountain of Ephthe children of Israel went down with him
from the mount, and he befor28 And he said unto them, Follow after me: for the LORD hath
deliveredes the Moabites into your hand. And they went down
after him, and took of Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not
a man to pass over.

3:29 And of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all
lusty, and all men o and there escaped not a man.

3:30 So Moab was subdued that day under of Israel. And the
land had rest fourscore years.

3:31 And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, which slew of the
Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also delivered
Israel.

4:1 And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the
LORD, when Ehud was dead.

4:2 And the LORD sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that
reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, which dwelt in
Harosheth of the Gentiles.

4:3 And the children of Israel cried unto the LORD: for he had nine
hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the
children of Israel.

4:4 And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel
at that time.

4:5 And she dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and
Bethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for
judgment.

4:6 And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out ofhtali, and said unto him, Hath not the LORD God of Israel
commanded, s and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee
ten thousand men of tn of Naphtali and of the children of
Zebulun?  4:7 And I will draw untthe river Kishon Sisera,
the captain of Jabin’s army, with his charis multitude; and
I will deliver him into thine hand.

4:8 And Barak sar, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go:
but if thou wilt not go wil not go.

4:9 And she said, I will surely go with thee: notwithstandiney that thou takest shall not be for thine honour; for the LORD
shallra into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and
went with Barak to:10 And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up
wiusand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.

4:11 Now Heber t which was of the children of Hobab the
father in law of Moses, had seelf from the Kenites, and
pitched his tent unto the plain of Zaanaim, y Kedesh.

4:12 And they shewed Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam wo mount Tabor.

4:13 And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, evundred
chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from
Hf the Gentiles unto the river of Kishon.

4:14 And Deborah said unto Bor this is the day in which the
LORD hath delivered Sisera into thine not the LORD gone out
before thee? So Barak went down from mount Taborthousand men
after him.

4:15 And the LORD discomfited Sisera, and allots, and all
his host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; so thaighted down off his chariot, and fled away on his feet.

4:16 But Barad after the chariots, and after the host, unto
Harosheth of the Gentill the host of Sisera fell upon the
edge of the sword; and there was noft.

4:17 Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael theeber the Kenite: for there was peace between Jabin the king of
Hazor ase of Heber the Kenite.

4:18 And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and sam, Turn in, my
lord, turn in to me; fear not. And when he had turned i into
the tent, she covered him with a mantle.

4:19 And he said unto e, I pray thee, a little water to
drink; for I am thirsty. And she opele of milk, and gave him
drink, and covered him.

4:20 Again he said uand in the door of the tent, and it
shall be, when any man doth come a of thee, and say, Is
there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.

4:el Heber’s wife took a nail of the tent, and took an
hammer in her hnt softly unto him, and smote the nail into
his temples, and fastened e ground: for he was fast asleep
and weary. So he died.

4:22 And, behued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him,
and said unto him, Come, and I hee the man whom thou
seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold,y dead, and
the nail was in his temples.

4:23 So God subdued on that he king of Canaan before the
children of Israel.

4:24 And the hand of children of Israel prospered, and prevailed
against Jabin the king ofan, until they had destroyed Jabin king
of Canaan.

5:1 Then sang Debond Barak the son of Abinoam on that day,
saying, 5:2 Praise ye the LORavenging of Israel, when the
people willingly offered themselves.

5:3e kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing
unto the LORD; Ipraise to the LORD God of Israel.

5:4 LORD, when thou wentest out of thou marchedst out of
the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the hped, the
clouds also dropped water.

5:5 The mountains melted from befRD, even that Sinai from
before the LORD God of Israel.

5:6 In the damgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the
highways were unoccupie travellers walked through byways.

5:7 The inhabitants of the villag they ceased in Israel,
until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a motrael.

5:8 They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: was there a spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?  5:9 My heart is toward
th of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the
people. Bless D.

5:10 Speak, ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in judgment, y the way.

5:11 They that are delivered from the noise of archers in 
of drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of then the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages
in Israel:l the people of the LORD go down to the gates.

5:12 Awake, awake, Debke, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak,
and lead thy captivity captive,of Abinoam.

5:13 Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over tamong the people: the LORD made me have dominion over the mighty.

5:1phraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after
thee, Benjamin, people; out of Machir came down governors,
and out of Zebulun they than of the writer.

5:15 And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; sachar, and
also Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the d
Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.

5:16 Why abodest thou amoepfolds, to hear the bleatings of
the flocks? For the divisions of Reuere great searchings of
heart.

5:17 Gilead abode beyond Jordan: and w remain in ships?
Asher continued on the sea shore, and abode in his b5:18 Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that jeoparded their lives
unth in the high places of the field.

5:19 The kings came and fought, tht the kings of Canaan in
Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took n money.

5:20 They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fougt Sisera.

5:21 The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.

5:22 Then were oofs broken by the means of the pransings,
the pransings of their migh5:23 Curse ye Meroz, said the angel of the LORD, curse ye bitterly thes thereof; because they came not to the help of the LORD, to
the help  against the mighty.

5:24 Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Kenite be,
blessed shall she be above women in the tent.

5:25 He askend she gave him milk; she brought forth butter
in a lordly dish.

5:26r hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen’s
hammer; and ammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head,
when she had pierced a through his temples.

5:27 At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay downeet he bowed,
he fell: where he bowed, there he fell down dead.

5:28  of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through
the lattice, Why iot so long in coming? why tarry the
wheels of his chariots?  5:29 Hers answered her, yea, she
returned answer to herself, 5:30 Have they noe they not
divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera avers colours, a prey of divers colours of needlework, of divers
colourwork on both sides, meet for the necks of them that
take the spoil?  5all thine enemies perish, O LORD: but let
them that love him be as thehe goeth forth in his might. And
the land had rest forty years.

6:1 Aldren of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD: and
the LORD deliveto the hand of Midian seven years.

6:2 And the hand of Midian prevail Israel: and because of
the Midianites the children of Israel made the which are in
the mountains, and caves, and strong holds.

6:3 And so en Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up,
and the Amalekites, an of the east, even they came up
against them; 6:4 And they encamped aroyed the
increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left noe for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.

6:5 For they came up wiattle and their tents, and they came
as grasshoppers for multitude; fo and their camels were
without number: and they entered into the land it.

6:6 And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianiteshildren of Israel cried unto the LORD.

6:7 And it came to pass, when en of Israel cried unto the
LORD because of the Midianites, 6:8 That tent a prophet unto
the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus LORD God
of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forthe house of bondage; 6:9 And I delivered you out of the hand of the
Egynd out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drave
them out from u, and gave you their land; 6:10 And I said
unto you, I am the LORD yoar not the gods of the Amorites,
in whose land ye dwell: but ye have nmy voice.

6:11 And there came an angel of the LORD, and sat under an was in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his son
Gished wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the
Midianites.

6:12 Andf the LORD appeared unto him, and said unto him,
The LORD is with theehty man of valour.

6:13 And Gideon said unto him, Oh my Lord, if the h us, why
then is all this befallen us? and where be all his miracles athers told us of, saying, Did not the LORD bring us up from Egypt?
buLORD hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of
the MidianitAnd the LORD looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and
thoue Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I
sent thee?  6:15  him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall I
save Israel?  behold, my family isManasseh, and I am the
least in my father’s house.

6:16 And the LORo him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou
shalt smite the Midianites.

6:17 And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,
 me a sign that thou talkest with me.

6:18 Depart not hence, I pray tI come unto thee, and bring
forth my present, and set it before thee. , I will tarry
until thou come again.

6:19 And Gideon went in, and makid, and unleavened cakes of
an ephah of flour: the flesh he put in a d he put the broth
in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oakented it.

6:20 And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh andned cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth.
And he6:21 Then the angel of the LORD put forth the end of the staff that
wand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and
there rose up  the rock, and consumed the flesh and the
unleavened cakes. Then the aLORD departed out of his
sight.

6:22 And when Gideon perceived that hgel of the LORD,
Gideon said, Alas, O LORD God! for because I have see of the
LORD face to face.

6:23 And the LORD said unto him, Peace be fear not: thou
shalt not die.

6:24 Then Gideon built an altar there uRD, and called it
Jehovahshalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of ites.

6:25 And it came to pass the same night, that the LORD said unte thy father’s young bullock, even the second bullock of seven
years throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and
cut down the gis by it: 6:26 And build an altar unto the
LORD thy God upon the top ok, in the ordered place, and take
the second bullock, and offer a burn with the wood of the
grove which thou shalt cut down.

6:27 Then Giden men of his servants, and did as the LORD had
said unto him: and so iause he feared his father’s
household, and the men of the city, thatnot do it by day,
that he did it by night.

6:28 And when the men of tse early in the morning, behold,
the altar of Baal was cast down, and was cut down that was
by it, and the second bullock was offered upon that was
built.

6:29 And they said one to another, Who hath done this  when
they enquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath thing.

6:30 Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy e may die: because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because
hedown the grove that was by it.

6:31 And Joash said unto all that stoohim, Will ye plead for
Baal? will ye save him? he that will plead for im be put to
death whilst it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him pimself, because one hath cast down his altar.

6:32 Therefore on that led him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal
plead against him, because he hathwn his altar.

6:33 Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and thef
the east were gathered together, and went over, and pitched in the
vzreel.

6:34 But the Spirit of the LORD came upon Gideon, and he blew  and Abiezer was gathered after him.

6:35 And he sent messengers throl Manasseh; who also was
gathered after him: and he sent messengers unnd unto
Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.

6:on said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by mine hand,
as thou hast  Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the
floor; and if the dew be oce only, and it be dry upon all
the earth beside, then shall I know tht save Israel by mine
hand, as thou hast said.

6:38 And it was so: foup early on the morrow, and thrust the
fleece together, and wringed thof the fleece, a bowl full of
water.

6:39 And Gideon said unto God, Lhine anger be hot against me,
and I will speak but this once: let me pay thee, but this
once with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon thand upon
all the ground let there be dew.

6:40 And God did so that ni was dry upon the fleece only,
and there was dew on all the ground.

7rubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people that were with
him, rose upnd pitched beside the well of Harod: so that the
host of the Midianitee north side of them, by the hill of
Moreh, in the valley.

7:2 And tho Gideon, The people that are with thee are
too many for me to give thites into their hands, lest Israel
vaunt themselves against me, sayingth saved me.

7:3 Now therefore go to, proclaim in the ears of the peoing,
Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early  Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two
thousand; andained ten thousand.

7:4 And the LORD said unto Gideon, The people areany; bring
them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee therhall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the
sao with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall
not go with same shall not go.

7:5 So he brought down the people unto the water:RD said
unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that
bowpon his knees to drink.

7:6 And the number of them that lapped, puttiand to their
mouth, were three hundred men: but all the rest of the pe
down upon their knees to drink water.

7:7 And the LORD said unto Gide three hundred men that
lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midiathine hand:
and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
 people took victuals in their hand, and their trumpets: and
he sent at of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained
those three hundred he host of Midian was beneath him in the
valley.

7:9 And it came to pe night, that the LORD said unto him,
Arise, get thee down unto the ho have delivered it into thine
hand.

7:10 But if thou fear to go down,th Phurah thy servant down
to the host: 7:11 And thou shalt hear what and afterward
shall thine hands be strengthened to go down unto the howent
he down with Phurah his servant unto the outside of the armed menin the host.

7:12 And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the c the
east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; andels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for
multitude.

7en Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a
dream unto hisnd said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, lo, a
cake of barley bread tu the host of Midian, and came unto a
tent, and smote it that it fell, rned it, that the tent lay
along.

7:14 And his fellow answered and sas nothing else save the
sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Isrto his hand
hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.

7:15 And it n Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and
the interpretation thereo worshipped, and returned into the
host of Israel, and said, Arise; foD hath delivered into your
hand the host of Midian.

7:16 And he dividee hundred men into three companies, and he
put a trumpet in every manwith empty pitchers, and lamps
within the pitchers.

7:17 And he said Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold,
when I come to the outside o, it shall be that, as I do, so
shall ye do.

7:18 When I blow with a and all that are with me, then blow
ye the trumpets also on every side camp, and say, The sword
of the LORD, and of Gideon.

7:19 So Gideon,en that were with him, came unto the
outside of the camp in the beginny set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and brake the
pitchers that were in their hands.

7:20 And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the
pitchers, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in
their right hands to blow withal: and they cried, The of the
LORD, and of Gideon.

7:21 And they stood every man in his plaabout the camp; and
all the host ran, and cried, and fled.

7:22 And tundred blew the trumpets, and the LORD set every
man’s sword against, even throughout all the host: and the
host fled to Bethshittah in Zed to the border of
Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath.

7:23 And the men of Isrred themselves together out of
Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of h, and pursued after
the Midianites.

7:24 And Gideon sent messengers  all mount Ephraim, saying,
come down against the Midianites, and takem the waters unto
Bethbarah and Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gamselves
together, and took the waters unto Bethbarah and Jordan.

7:25took two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; and
they slew Oreb k Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the winepress
of Zeeb, and pursued Midiaght the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to
Gideon on the other side Jordan.

8:men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us
thus, that thou s not, when thou wentest to fight with the
Midianites?  And they did cim sharply.

8:2 And he said unto them, What have I done now in compar?
Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintager?  8:3 God hath delivered into your hands the princes of
Midian, Oreband what was I able to do in comparison of you?
Then their anger was ard him, when he had said that.

8:4 And Gideon came to Jordan, and pase, and the three
hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing tAnd he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, loaves of
breadpeople that follow me; for they be faint, and I am
pursuing after Zebaunna, kings of Midian.

8:6 And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hbah and
Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thi:7 And Gideon said, Therefore when the LORD hath delivered Zebah and
Zto mine hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns
of the wildewith briers.

8:8 And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them and
the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answeredAnd he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I come
again inwill break down this tower.

8:10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkoir hosts with them,
about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of ts of the
children of the east: for there fell an hundred and twenty t that drew sword.

8:11 And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwe on the
east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host; for the host w
8:12 And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued after them, and too Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the
host.

8:13 And Gon of Joash returned from battle before the sun
was up, 8:14 And caughn of the men of Succoth, and
enquired of him: and he described unto hies of Succoth, and
the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen mnd he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and
Zalmunnye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah
and Zalmunna now in  that we should give bread unto thy men
that are weary?  8:16 And he ters of the city, and thorns
of the wilderness and briers, and with thethe men of
Succoth.

8:17 And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slty.

8:18 Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men werhom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were
they; eambled the children of a king.

8:19 And he said, They were my brethren sons of my mother:
as the LORD liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I lay you.

8:20 And he said unto Jether his firstborn, Up, and slay theyouth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a youth.

ebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us: for as
the man is strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and
Zalmunna, and took awaents that were on their camels’
necks.

8:22 Then the men of Israel Gideon, Rule thou over us, both
thou, and thy son, and thy son’s sonthou hast delivered us
from the hand of Midian.

8:23 And Gideon said  I will not rule over you, neither
shall my son rule over you: the LORe over you.

8:24 And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request t
ye would give me every man the earrings of his prey. (For they had
gings, because they were Ishmaelites.)  8:25 And they
answered, We willgive them. And they spread a garment, and
did cast therein every man ts of his prey.

8:26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he reqa
thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; beside ornaments, and
co purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian, and
beside the chains about their camels’ necks.

8:27 And Gideon made an ephod thereof,  in his city, even in
Ophrah: and all Israel went thither a whoring afch thing
became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.

8:28 Thus was dued before the children of Israel, so that
they lifted up their headsAnd the country was in quietness
forty years in the days of Gideon.

8aal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.

8:30 And Gideonreescore and ten sons of his body begotten: for
he had many wives.

8: concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son,
whose name heimelech.

8:32 And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the
Abiezrites.

8ame to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the
children of Israel tn, and went a whoring after Baalim, and
made Baalberith their god.

8: children of Israel remembered not the LORD their God, who
had delivert of the hands of all their enemies on every
side: 8:35 Neither shewedess to the house of Jerubbaal,
namely, Gideon, according to all the goh he had shewed unto
Israel.

9:1 And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal whem unto his
mother’s brethren, and communed with them, and with all of
the house of his mother’s father, saying, 9:2 Speak, I pray you,rs of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, either
that aof Jerubbaal, which are threescore and ten persons,
reign over you, oreign over you? remember also that I am
your bone and your flesh.

9:3 ther’s brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men
of Shechem ards: and their hearts inclined to follow
Abimelech; for they said, He er.

9:4 And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of f Baalberith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light persons,
which m.

9:5 And he went unto his father’s house at Ophrah, and slew his
e sons of Jerubbaal, being threescore and ten persons, upon
one stone:nding yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal
was left; for he hid hi And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of
Mient, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillar
that was in S:7 And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of
mom, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them,
Hearken unten of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.

9:8 The trees went fortme to anoint a king over them; and
they said unto the olive tree, Reiger us.

9:9 But the olive tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatneth by me they honour God and man, and go to be promoted over
the trees the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and
reign over us.

9:11 Btree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness,
and my good fruit, be promoted over the trees?  9:12 Then
said the trees unto the vine, and reign over us.

9:13 And the vine said unto them, Should I leave mch
cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?  9:14 Tl the trees unto the bramble, Come thou, and reign over us.

9:15 And le said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me
king over you, then ct your trust in my shadow: and if not,
let fire come out of the bramblour the cedars of Lebanon.

9:16 Now therefore, if ye have done truly ly, in that ye
have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well witl and
his house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of ; 9:17 (For my father fought for you, and adventured his life
far, and you out of the hand of Midian: 9:18 And ye are
risen up against my fause this day, and have slain his sons,
threescore and ten persons, upo, and have made Abimelech,
the son of his maidservant, king over the mhem, because he
is your brother;) 9:19 If ye then have dealt truly and with
Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelt him also rejoice in you: 9:20 But if not, let fire come out
from Abind devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo;
and let fire comm the men of Shechem, and from the house of
Millo, and devour Abimelecd Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there,
for feelech his brother.

9:22 When Abimelech had reigned three years over I Then God
sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechemmen of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech: 9:24 That the
cruel the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbaal might come,
and their blood n Abimelech their brother, which slew them;
and upon the men of Shecheded him in the killing of his
brethren.

9:25 And the men of Shechem sn wait for him in the top of
the mountains, and they robbed all that c that way by them:
and it was told Abimelech.

9:26 And Gaal the son oe with his brethren, and went over to
Shechem: and the men of Shechem onfidence in him.

9:27 And they went out into the fields, and gathereneyards,
and trode the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house
god, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.

9:28 And Gaal the d said, Who is Abimelech, and who is
Shechem, that we should serve him the son of Jerubbaal? and
Zebul his officer? serve the men of Hamor tof Shechem: for
why should we serve him?  9:29 And would to God this p under
my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said to Abimelece thine army, and come out.

9:30 And when Zebul the ruler of the citywords of Gaal the
son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.

9:31 And he senrs unto Abimelech privily, saying, Behold,
Gaal the son of Ebed and hi be come to Shechem; and, behold,
they fortify the city against thee.
therefore up by night, thou and the people that is with thee,
and lie  the field: 9:33 And it shall be, that in the
morning, as soon as the thou shalt rise early, and set upon
the city: and, behold, when he andple that is with him come
out against thee, then mayest thou do to the shalt find
occasion.

9:34 And Abimelech rose up, and all the people ith him, by
night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companiend Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entering of
the gat city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were
with him, from ait.

9:36 And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, Behold, theople down from the top of the mountains. And Zebul said unto
him, Thoushadow of the mountains as if they were men.

9:37 And Gaal spake agai, See there come people down by the
middle of the land, and another co along by the plain of
Meonenim.

9:38 Then said Zebul unto him, Wherey mouth, wherewith thou
saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should servet this the
people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and figem.

9:39 And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with.

9:40 And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many werwn and wounded, even unto the entering of the gate.

9:41 And Abimelec Arumah: and Zebul thrust out Gaal and his
brethren, that they should in Shechem.

9:42 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people wto
the field; and they told Abimelech.

9:43 And he took the people, ad them into three companies,
and laid wait in the field, and looked, a, the people were
come forth out of the city; and he rose up against tote
them.

9:44 And Abimelech, and the company that was with him, rush
and stood in the entering of the gate of the city: and the two other
ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew
them.

9:45 lech fought against the city all that day; and he took
the city, and sple that was therein, and beat down the
city, and sowed it with salt.
 when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they
entered int of the house of the god Berith.

9:47 And it was told Abimelech, thatn of the tower of
Shechem were gathered together.

9:48 And Abimelech  to mount Zalmon, he and all the people
that were with him; and Abimeln axe in his hand, and cut
down a bough from the trees, and took it, aon his shoulder,
and said unto the people that were with him, What ye me do,
make haste, and do as I have done.

9:49 And all the people likdown every man his bough, and
followed Abimelech, and put them to the et the hold on fire
upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shelso,
about a thousand men and women.

9:50 Then went Abimelech to Thebcamped against Thebez, and
took it.

9:51 But there was a strong towere city, and thither fled
all the men and women, and all they of the ciut it to them,
and gat them up to the top of the tower.

9:52 And Abimunto the tower, and fought against it, and
went hard unto the door of to burn it with fire.

9:53 And a certain woman cast a piece of a mill Abimelech’s
head, and all to brake his skull.

9:54 Then he called to the young man his armourbearer, and
said unto him, Draw thy sword, that men say not of me, A
women slew him. And his young man thrust himnd he died.

9:55 And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was deeparted every man unto his place.

9:56 Thus God rendered the wickednelech, which he did unto
his father, in slaying his seventy brethren: 9 the evil of
the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and ume
the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.

10:1 And after Abimelechse to defend Israel Tola the son of
Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Isd he dwelt in Shamir in
mount Ephraim.

10:2 And he judged Israel twene years, and died, and was
buried in Shamir.

10:3 And after him aroseileadite, and judged Israel twenty
and two years.

10:4 And he had thihat rode on thirty ass colts, and they
had thirty cities, which are cahjair unto this day, which
are in the land of Gilead.

10:5 And Jair ds buried in Camon.

10:6 And the children of Israel did evil again in t of the
LORD, and served Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syriagods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of
Ahe gods of the Philistines, and forsook the LORD, and
served not him.
the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he sold
them into ththe Philistines, and into the hands of the
children of Ammon.

10:8 Anar they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel:
eighteen years, alren of Israel that were on the other side
Jordan in the land of the Amich is in Gilead.

10:9 Moreover the children of Ammon passed over Jort also
against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ethat Israel was sore distressed.

10:10 And the children of Israel cri LORD, saying, We have
sinned against thee, both because we have forsa, and also
served Baalim.

10:11 And the LORD said unto the children oid not I deliver
you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from t of
Ammon, and from the Philistines?  10:12 The Zidonians also, and thes, and the Maonites, did oppress you; and ye cried to me, and
I delivt of their hand.

10:13 Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods I will
deliver you no more.

10:14 Go and cry unto the gods which ye en; let them deliver
you in the time of your tribulation.

10:15 And tn of Israel said unto the LORD, We have sinned:
do thou unto us whatsoth good unto thee; deliver us only, we
pray thee, this day.

10:16 Andway the strange gods from among them, and served
the LORD: and his souved for the misery of Israel.

10:17 Then the children of Ammon were ggether, and encamped
in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled ttogether,
and encamped in Mizpeh.

10:18 And the people and princes ofd one to another, What
man is he that will begin to fight against the he
shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.

11:1 Now Jephthad he was
the son of an harlot: and Gilead begat Jephthah.

11:2 And Gilead’s wife bare him sons; and his wife’s sons grew up, and
they thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in
our f’s house; for thou art the son of a strange woman.

11:3 Then Jephthm his brethren, and dwelt in the land of
Tob: and there were gathered o Jephthah, and went out with
him.

11:4 And it came to pass in proces, that the children of
Ammon made war against Israel.

11:5 And it washen the children of Ammon made war against
Israel, the elders of Gileafetch Jephthah out of the land of
Tob: 11:6 And they said unto Jephthad be our captain, that
we may fight with the children of Ammon.

11:7 ah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me,
and expel me outher’s house? and why are ye come unto me now
when ye are in distresd the elders of Gilead said unto
Jephthah, Therefore we turn again to that thou mayest go
with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, head over
all the inhabitants of Gilead.

11:9 And Jephthah said unto of Gilead, If ye bring me home
again to fight against the children of  the LORD deliver
them before me, shall I be your head?  11:10 And the Gilead
said unto Jephthah, The LORD be witness between us, if we do nrding to thy words.

11:11 Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilea people
made him head and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all he LORD in Mizpeh.

11:12 And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king odren of
Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art comme to fight in my land?  11:13 And the king of the children of
Ammon ato the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took
away my land, when up out of Egypt, from Arnon even unto
Jabbok, and unto Jordan: now the restore those lands again
peaceably.

11:14 And Jephthah sent messengunto the king of the children
of Ammon: 11:15 And said unto him, Thus thah, Israel took
not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the childon:
11:16 But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the
wunto the Red sea, and came to Kadesh; 11:17 Then Israel
sent messenger king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee,
pass through thy land: butf Edom would not hearken thereto.
And in like manner they sent unto thoab: but he would not
consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.

11:18 Thenalong through the wilderness, and compassed the
land of Edom, and the ab, and came by the east side of the
land of Moab, and pitched on the of Arnon, but came not
within the border of Moab: for Arnon was the bob.

11:19 And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites,  Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee,
through into my place.

11:20 But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through hit
Sihon gathered all his people together, and pitched in Jahaz, and
fost Israel.

11:21 And the LORD God of Israel delivered Sihon and all h
into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed allof the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.

11:22 And they posshe coasts of the Amorites, from Arnon
even unto Jabbok, and from the weven unto Jordan.

11:23 So now the LORD God of Israel hath dispossessites
from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?  11ot thou possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to
possess? So r the LORD our God shall drive out from before
us, them will we possesnd now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor,
king ofr strive against Israel, or did he ever fight
against them, 11:26 Whilelt in Heshbon and her towns, and
in Aroer and her towns, and in all that be along by the
coasts of Arnon, three hundred years? why therefor recover
them within that time?  11:27 Wherefore I have not sinned agabut thou doest me wrong to war against me: the LORD the Judge be
judgeetween the children of Israel and the children of
Ammon.

11:28 Howbeiof the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the
words of Jephthah whicim.

11:29 Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jephthah, and he passead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from
Mizpeh o passed over unto the children of Ammon.

11:30 And Jephthah vowed a ve LORD, and said, If thou shalt
without fail deliver the children of Aine hands, 11:31 Then
it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of they house to
meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon,y be the LORD’s, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering.

11:32ah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight
against them; and tivered them into his hands.

11:33 And he smote them from Aroer, even me to Minnith,
even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyardsry
great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the Israel.

11:34 And Jephthah came to Mizpeh unto his house, and, beholghter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she
was ld; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.

11:35 And it came to he saw her, that he rent his clothes,
and said, Alas, my daughter! thoght me very low, and thou
art one of them that trouble me: for I have outh unto the
LORD, and I cannot go back.

11:36 And she said unto himif thou hast opened thy mouth
unto the LORD, do to me according to tha proceeded out of
thy mouth; forasmuch as the LORD hath taken vengeanc of
thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.

11:37 And she said ther, Let this thing be done for me: let
me alone two months, that I m down upon the mountains, and
bewail my virginity, I and my fellows.

d, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she
went with her compewailed her virginity upon the
mountains.

11:39 And it came to pass a of two months, that she returned
unto her father, who did with her achis vow which he had
vowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom i1:40 That
the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter o
the Gileadite four days in a year.

12:1 And the men of Ephraim gatheves together, and went
northward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore pa over to
fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us toee? we will burn thine house upon thee with fire.

12:2 And Jephthah sem, I and my people were at great strife
with the children of Ammon; aalled you, ye delivered me not
out of their hands.

12:3 And when I sadelivered me not, I put my life in my
hands, and passed over against tn of Ammon, and the LORD
delivered them into my hand: wherefore then aup unto me
this day, to fight against me?  12:4 Then Jephthah gathered
all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gileadraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives of
Ephraim among mites, and among the Manassites.

12:5 And the Gileadites took the pasrdan before the
Ephraimites: and it was so, that when those Ephraimitere
escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him,an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay; 12:6 Then said they unto him,
Say now : and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame to
pronounce it right.took him, and slew him at the passages
of Jordan: and there fell at th the Ephraimites forty and
two thousand.

12:7 And Jephthah judged Isrrs. Then died Jephthah the
Gileadite, and was buried in one of the citead.

12:8 And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.

12:9 And hty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent
abroad, and took in thirtyrom abroad for his sons. And he
judged Israel seven years.

12:10 Thenn, and was buried at Bethlehem.

12:11 And after him Elon, a ZebulonitIsrael; and he judged
Israel ten years.

12:12 And Elon the Zebulonitewas buried in Aijalon in the
country of Zebulun.

12:13 And after him on of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged
Israel.

12:14 And he had forty soty nephews, that rode on
threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged I years.

12:15 And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and win Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.

1 children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the
LORD; and the Lred them into the hand of the Philistines
forty years.

13:2 And theretain man of Zorah, of the family of the
Danites, whose name was Manoahife was barren, and bare not.

13:3 And the angel of the LORD appearedwoman, and said unto
her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest notshalt
conceive, and bear a son.

13:4 Now therefore beware, I pray thenk not wine nor strong
drink, and eat not any unclean thing: 13:5 For,shalt
conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head: fld shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin
to del out of the hand of the Philistines.

13:6 Then the woman came and tsband, saying, A man of God
came unto me, and his countenance was likeenance of an angel
of God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence her told
he me his name: 13:7 But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt cand bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat
ann thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the
womb to theis death.

13:8 Then Manoah intreated the LORD, and said, O my Lord, lof God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we
nto the child that shall be born.

13:9 And God hearkened to the voice and the angel of God
came again unto the woman as she sat in the fieloah her
husband was not with her.

13:10 And the woman made haste, andshewed her husband, and
said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared ut came unto
me the other day.

13:11 And Manoah arose, and went after nd came to the man,
and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest uman? And
he said, I am.

13:12 And Manoah said, Now let thy words comeHow shall we
order the child, and how shall we do unto him?  13:13 And
the LORD said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her
:14 She may not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither
let ine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all
that I commanded h observe.

13:15 And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, I pray thetain thee, until we shall have made ready a kid for thee.

13:16 And of the LORD said unto Manoah, Though thou detain
me, I will not eat ofd: and if thou wilt offer a burnt
offering, thou must offer it unto thr Manoah knew not that
he was an angel of the LORD.

13:17 And Manoah the angel of the LORD, What is thy name,
that when thy sayings come toay do thee honour?  13:18 And
the angel of the LORD said unto him, Whyou thus after my
name, seeing it is secret?  13:19 So Manoah took a kieat
offering, and offered it upon a rock unto the LORD: and the angel ously; and Manoah and his wife looked on.

13:20 For it came to pass, lame went up toward heaven from
off the altar, that the angel of the Ld in the flame of the
altar. And Manoah and his wife looked on it, andtheir faces
to the ground.

13:21 But the angel of the LORD did no moro Manoah and to
his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was an angel of the22 And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we
have

13:23 But his wife said unto him, If the LORD were pleased to kill u not have received a burnt offering and a meat offering at our
hands, uld he have shewed us all these things, nor would as
at this time haveuch things as these.

13:24 And the woman bare a son, and called his n and the
child grew, and the LORD blessed him.

13:25 And the Spirit o began to move him at times in the
camp of Dan between Zorah and EshtaAnd Samson went down to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnath of
the dauhe Philistines.

14:2 And he came up, and told his father and his mothd, I
have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines:fore get her for me to wife.

14:3 Then his father and his mother saidIs there never a
woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among ae,
that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? Anid unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleaseth me well.

14:4 Bur and his mother knew not that it was of the LORD,
that he sought an oainst the Philistines: for at that time
the Philistines had dominion o

14:5 Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnat to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion roared
against And the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and he rent
him asave rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but
he told not his fas mother what he had done.

14:7 And he went down, and talked with the she pleased
Samson well.

14:8 And after a time he returned to take h turned aside to
see the carcase of the lion: and, behold, there was a bees
and honey in the carcase of the lion.

14:9 And he took thereof ds, and went on eating, and came to
his father and mother, and he gave they did eat: but he told
not them that he had taken the honey out ofse of the lion.

14:10 So his father went down unto the woman: and Samhere a
feast; for so used the young men to do.

14:11 And it came to p they saw him, that they brought thirty
companions to be with him.

14son said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto
you: if ye can declare it me within the seven days of the
feast, and find it out, thegive you thirty sheets and thirty
change of garments: 14:13 But if ye lare it me, then shall
ye give me thirty sheets and thirty change of gAnd they said
unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.

14said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and out
of the stronth sweetness. And they could not in three days
expound the riddle.

14 came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto
Samson’s wife,y husband, that he may declare unto us the
riddle, lest we burn thee aer’s house with fire: have ye
called us to take that we have? is it :16 And Samson’s wife
wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate vest me not:
thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my peopnot told it me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my
far my mother, and shall I tell it thee?  14:17 And she wept
before him ays, while their feast lasted: and it came to
pass on the seventh day,ld her, because she lay sore upon
him: and she told the riddle to the f her people.

14:18 And the men of the city said unto him on the seveore
the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? And what is strongen?  and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my
heifer, ye hadout my riddle.

14:19 And the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and heto
Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gaf garments unto them which expounded the riddle. And his anger
was kine went up to his father’s house.

14:20 But Samson’s wife was givempanion, whom he had used
as his friend.

15:1 But it came to pass wit after, in the time of wheat
harvest, that Samson visited his wife witd he said, I will
go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father woer him
to go in.

15:2 And her father said, I verily thought that thourly
hated her; therefore I gave her to thy companion: is not her youngairer than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.

15:3 And Samsoerning them, Now shall I be more blameless
than the Philistines, thougspleasure.

15:4 And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and trands, and turned tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the midst
betwead set the brands on fire, he let them go into the
standing corn of thalso the standing corn, with the vineyards and olives.

15:6 Then the done this? And they answered,
Samson, the son in law of the Timnite, bad taken his wife,
and given her to his companion. And the Philistinesand burnt
her and her father with fire.

15:7 And Samson said unto thee have done this, yet will I
be avenged of you, and after that I will 8 And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he
went welt in the top of the rock Etam.

15:9 Then the Philistines went up,  in Judah, and spread
themselves in Lehi.

15:10 And the men of Judah are ye come up against us? And
they answered, To bind Samson are we coo to him as he hath
done to us.

15:11 Then three thousand men of Judahe top of the rock
Etam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that theines are
rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? Andnto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.

15:12 And thnto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we
may deliver thee into f the Philistines. And Samson said
unto them, Swear unto me, that ye wll upon me yourselves.

15:13 And they spake unto him, saying, No; butind thee fast,
and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will noe.
And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from the
14 And when he came unto Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him:
anof the LORD came mightily upon him, and the cords that
were upon his aand his
bands loosed from off his hands.

15:15 And he found a new jawn ass, and put forth his hand,
and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.

15:16 And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upos,
with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.

15:17 And it css, when he had made an end of speaking, that
he cast away the jawboneis hand, and called that place
Ramathlehi.

15:18 And he was sore athialled on the LORD, and said, Thou
hast given this great deliverance innd of thy servant: and
now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the h
uncircumcised?  15:19 But God clave an hollow place that was in the
jere came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spirit
came again,evived: wherefore he called the name thereof
Enhakkore, which is in Leis day.

15:20 And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twe

16:1 Then went Samson to Gaza, and saw there an harlot, and went in

16:2 And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And
ssed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of
the city, iet all the night, saying, In the morning, when
it is day, we shall ki:3 And Samson lay till midnight, and arose at midnight, and took the
de gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with
them, bar an put them upon his shoulders, and carried them
up to the top of an hilore Hebron.

16:4 And it came to pass afterward, that he loved a womanley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.

16:5 And the lords of the Phili up unto her, and said unto
her, Entice him, and see wherein his greatieth, and by what
means we may prevail against him, that we may bind hct him;
and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of6:6 And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy
greaieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict
thee.

16:7 And d unto her, If they bind me with seven green withs
that were never drihall I be weak, and be as another man.

16:8 Then the lords of the Phiought up to her seven green
withs which had not been dried, and she both them.

16:9 Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in t.

And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And hewiths, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the
fire. So his s not known.

16:10 And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mod
told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be
b1 And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that
neverpied, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.

16:12 Delilah thernew ropes, and bound him therewith, and
said unto him, The Philistinesee, Samson. And there were
liers in wait abiding in the chamber. And hm from off his
arms like a thread.

16:13 And Delilah said unto Samson thou hast mocked me, and
told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightese said
unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the wnd she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The
Philistines behee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, and
went away with the pieam, and with the web.

16:15 And she said unto him, How canst thou sahee, when
thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.

16:16 And it came n she pressed him daily with her words,
and urged him, so that his sou unto death; 16:17 That he
told her all his heart, and said unto her, not come a razor
upon mine head; for I have been a Nazarite unto God fr’s
womb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I sheak, and be like any other man.

16:18 And when Delilah saw that he haall his heart, she
sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, s up this
once, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of tines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.

16:19 And shleep upon her knees; and she called for a man,
and she caused him to se seven locks of his head; and she
began to afflict him, and his strenom him.

16:20 And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. Andout of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before,
anlf. And he wist not that the LORD was departed from him.

16:21 But thnes took him, and put out his eyes, and brought
him down to Gaza, and with fetters of brass; and he did
grind in the prison house.

16:22 Hoair of his head began to grow again after he was
shaven.

16:23 Then tf the Philistines gathered them together for to
offer a great sacrificn their god, and to rejoice: for they
said, Our god hath delivered Sammy into our hand.

16:24 And when the people saw him, they praised the they
said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the
d our country, which slew many of us.

16:25 And it came to pass, when s were merry, that they
said, Call for Samson, that he may make us spoy called for
Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: at
him between the pillars.

16:26 And Samson said unto the lad that hehe hand, Suffer
me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house staI
may lean upon them.

16:27 Now the house was full of men and women; e lords of
the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof abhousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport.

16:28 Andled unto the LORD, and said, O Lord God, remember
me, I pray thee, and me, I pray thee, only this once, O
God, that I may be at once avengedistines for my two eyes.

16:29 And Samson took hold of the two middlepon which the
house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one wit
hand, and of the other with his left.

16:30 And Samson said, Let methe Philistines. And he bowed
himself with all his might; and the hous the lords, and
upon all the people that were therein. So the dead whiat
his death were more than they which he slew in his life.

16:31 Thehren and all the house of his father came down, and
took him, and brou, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol
in the buryingplace of Manor. And he judged Israel twenty
years.

17:1 And there was a man of mou, whose name was Micah.

17:2 And he said unto his mother, The eleven ekels of silver
that were taken from thee, about which thou cursedst,  of
also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And haid, Blessed be thou of the LORD, my son.

17:3 And when he had restoren hundred shekels of silver to
his mother, his mother said, I had whoted the silver unto
the LORD from my hand for my son, to make a graven a molten
image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.

17:4 Yet ed the money unto his mother; and his mother took
two hundred shekels r, and gave them to the founder, who made
thereof a graven image and amage: and they were in the house
of Micah.

17:5 And the man Micah hadf gods, and made an ephod, and
teraphim, and consecrated one of his soame his priest.

17:6 In those days there was no king in Israel, but ed that
which was right in his own eyes.

17:7 And there was a young mathlehemjudah of the family of
Judah, who was a Levite, and he sojourne17:8 And the man departed out of the city from Bethlehemjudah to
sojoucould find a place: and he came to mount Ephraim to
the house of Micahurneyed.

17:9 And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he sai I am a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I may
find

17:10 And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a fatheest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year,
and a suil, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.

17:11 And the Levite was dwell with the man; and the young
man was unto him as one of his sons. Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his
priest, ane house of Micah.

17:13 Then said Micah, Now know I that the LORD wild,
seeing I have a Levite to my priest.

18:1 In those days there was  Israel: and in those days the
tribe of the Danites sought them an inho dwell in; for unto
that day all their inheritance had not fallen untg the
tribes of Israel.

18:2 And the children of Dan sent of their famen from their
coasts, men of valour, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, toe
land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they
lodged there.n they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the
young ma: and they turned in thither, and said unto him,
Who brought thee hitht makest thou in this place? and what
hast thou here?  18:4 And he saim, Thus and thus dealeth
Micah with me, and hath hired me, and I am hi18:5 And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that
wwhether our way which we go shall be prosperous.

18:6 And the priest em, Go in peace: before the LORD is
your way wherein ye go.

18:7 Thenmen departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people
that were therein,dwelt careless, after the manner of the
Zidonians, quiet and secure; as no magistrate in the land,
that might put them to shame in any thingwere far from the
Zidonians, and had no business with any man.

18:8 Ae unto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their
brethren said unat say ye?  18:9 And they said, Arise, that
we may go up against them:ve seen the land, and, behold, it
is very good: and are ye still? be n to go, and to enter to
possess the land.

18:10 When ye go, ye shall  people secure, and to a large
land: for God hath given it into your hce where there is no
want of any thing that is in the earth.

18:11 Annt from thence of the family of the Danites, out of
Zorah and out of E hundred men appointed with weapons of
war.

18:12 And they went up, aathjearim, in Judah:
wherefore they called that place Mahanehdan unto behold, it
is behind Kirjathjearim.

18:13 And they passed thence untohraim, and came unto the
house of Micah.

18:14 Then answered the fiveent to spy out the country of
Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do t there is in these
houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image,ten image?
now therefore consider what ye have to do.

18:15 And they therward, and came to the house of the young
man the Levite, even untoof Micah, and saluted him.

18:16 And the six hundred men appointed wiweapons of war,
which were of the children of Dan, stood by the enteriate.

18:17 And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, anthither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the
teraphim, alten image: and the priest stood in the entering
of the gate with the d men that were appointed with weapons
of war.

18:18 And these went is house, and fetched the carved image,
the ephod, and the teraphim, lten image. Then said the
priest unto them, What do ye?  18:19 And theo him, Hold thy
peace, lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, s a
father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto thee man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family
in Israel?  the priest’s heart was glad, and he took the
ephod, and the teraphimgraven image, and went in the midst
of the people.

18:21 So they turnrted, and put the little ones and the
cattle and the carriage before t And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men
that whouses near to Micah’s house were gathered together,
and overtook th of Dan.

18:23 And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turnes, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with
such  18:24 And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I
made, and the pye are gone away: and what have I more? and
what is this that ye say uat aileth thee?  18:25 And the
children of Dan said unto him, Let not e heard among us,
lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy the
lives of thy household.

18:26 And the children of Dan went their en Micah saw that
they were too strong for him, he turned and went bachouse.

18:27 And they took the things which Micah had made, and the p he had, and came unto Laish, unto a people that were at quiet
and secey smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt
the city with fired there was no deliverer, because it was far from Zidon, and
they had  with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth
by Bethrehob. And ta city, and dwelt therein.

18:29 And they called the name of the city the name of Dan
their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the n city
was Laish at the first.

18:30 And the children of Dan set up thage: and Jonathan,
the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and hispriests
to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the landd they set them up Micah’s graven image, which he made, all
the timeouse of God was in Shiloh.

19:1 And it came to pass in those days, whas no king in
Israel, that there was a certain Levite sojourning on thmount Ephraim, who took to him a concubine out of Bethlehemjudah.

19:concubine played the whore against him, and went away
from him unto hes house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there four
whole months.

19:3 Andd arose, and went after her, to speak friendly unto
her, and to bring , having his servant with him, and a couple
of asses: and she brought r father’s house: and when the
father of the damsel saw him, he rejoeet him.

19:4 And his father in law, the damsel’s father, retained e
abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged
thend it came to pass on the fourth day, when they arose early in
the mor he rose up to depart: and the damsel’s father said
unto his son in ort thine heart with a morsel of bread, and
afterward go your way.

19 sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together:
for the damseler had said unto the man, Be content, I pray
thee, and tarry all nightthine heart be merry.

19:7 And when the man rose up to depart, his faged him:
therefore he lodged there again.

19:8 And he arose early in g on the fifth day to depart; and
the damsel’s father said, Comfort t, I pray thee. And they
tarried until afternoon, and they did eat bot
19:9 And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and
h his father in law, the damsel’s father, said unto him,
Behold, now weth toward evening, I pray you tarry all
night: behold, the day growend, lodge here, that thine heart
may be merry; and to morrow get you er way, that thou
mayest go home.

19:10 But the man would not tarry thbut he rose up and
departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerd there
were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with hAnd when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the
servant sas master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in
into this city of the and lodge in it.

19:12 And his master said unto him, We will not turner into
the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel;ss over to Gibeah.

19:13 And he said unto his servant, Come, and let r to one
of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.

they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down
upon them whe by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.

19:15 And they turned aside go in and to lodge in Gibeah:
and when he went in, he sat him down in  the city: for
there was no man that took them into his house to lodgi And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of the
field at  was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned in
Gibeah: but the men ofere Benjamites.

19:17 And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wa in
the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? comest thou?  19:18 And he said unto him, We are passing from
Bethleherd the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I: and
I went to Bethlehe I am now going to the house of the LORD;
and there is no man that reco house.

19:19 Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; as bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young
 with thy servants: there is no want of any thing.

19:20 And the old eace be with thee; howsoever let all thy
wants lie upon me; only lodge street.

19:21 So he brought him into his house, and gave provender us: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.

19:22 Now as thaking their hearts merry, behold, the men of
the city, certain sons ofset the house round about, and
beat at the door, and spake to the mastouse, the old man,
saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine hoe may
know him.

19:23 And the man, the master of the house, went out nd
said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wicked that this man is come into mine house, do not this folly.

19:24 Behos my daughter a maiden, and his concubine; them I
will bring out now, ye them, and do with them what seemeth
good unto you: but unto this mao vile a thing.

19:25 But the men would not hearken to him: so the maht her forth unto them; and they knew her, and
abused her all the nighhe day began to
spring, they let her go.

19:26 Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at
the door of the man’s house where her lord was, till it was light.

19:27 And her lord rose up iorning, and opened the doors of the
house, and went out to go his way:ld, the woman his
concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, ds were
upon the threshold.

19:28 And he said unto her, Up, and let u But none
answered.

Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man and gat him
unto his place.

19:29 And when he was come into his housa knife, and laid
hold on his concubine, and divided her, together wites, into
twelve pieces, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.

1t was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed
done nor s day that the children of Israel came up out of
the land of Egypt unto consider of it, take advice, and
speak your minds.

20:1 Then all thef Israel went out, and the congregation
was gathered together as one man even to Beersheba, with the
land of Gilead, unto the LORD in Mizpehnd the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of
Israel, pres assembly of the people of God,
four hundred thousand footmen that dre.

20:3 (Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israee up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us,
how was thess?  20:4 And the Levite, the husband of the
woman that was slain, an said, I came into Gibeah that
belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubie.

20:5 And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house ropon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine
have t, that she is dead.

20:6 And I took my concubine, and cut her in piect her
throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel: for themitted lewdness and folly in Israel.

20:7 Behold, ye are all children give here your advice and
counsel.

20:8 And all the people arose as We will not any of
us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn i.

20:9 But now this shall be the thing which we will do to Gibeah; wey lot against it; 20:10 And we will take ten men of an
hundred through of Israel, and an hundred of a
thousand, and a thousand out of ten thfetch victual for the
people, that they may do, when they come to Gibemin,
according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.

20:he men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit
together as one 2 And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of
Benjamin,at wickedness is this that is done among you?
20:13 Now therefore delimen, the children of Belial, which
are in Gibeah, that we may put themand put away evil from
Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not  the voice of
their brethren the children of Israel.

20:14 But the chenjamin gathered themselves together out of
the cities unto Gibeah, to battle against the children of
Israel.

20:15 And the children of Bennumbered at that time out of
the cities twenty and six thousand men theside the
inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred cho0:16 Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men
lefthan one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and not
miss.

20:17 And t Israel, beside Benjamin, were numbered four
hundred thousand men that all these were men of war.

20:18 And the children of Israel arose, ato the house of
God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us sfirst
to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And the LORD saihall go up first.

20:19 And the children of Israel rose up in the morncamped
against Gibeah.

20:20 And the men of Israel went out to battlenjamin; and
the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight againsGibeah.

20:21 And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, yed down to the ground of the Israelites that day twenty and two
thous0:22 And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set
t again in array in the place where they put themselves in
array the fi0:23 (And the children of Israel went up and wept before the LORD
untid asked counsel of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up again
to battle agahildren of Benjamin my brother? And the LORD
said, Go up against him.)d the children of Israel came near
against the children of Benjamin thay.

20:25 And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the secod destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again
eightee men; all these drew the sword.

20:26 Then all the children of Israelhe people, went up,
and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat  the
LORD, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt offerings offerings before the LORD.

20:27 And the children of Israel enquiredD, (for the ark of
the covenant of God was there in those days, 20:28 as, the
son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those day Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of
Benjamin m or shall I cease? And the LORD said, Go up; for
to morrow I will delinto thine hand.

20:29 And Israel set liers in wait round about Gibeahnd the children of Israel went up against the children of
Benjamin on ay, and put themselves in array against Gibeah,
as at other times.

20e children of Benjamin went out against the people, and
were drawn awa and they began to smite of the people,
and kill, as at other times, iways, of which one goeth up to
the house of God, and the other to Gibeield, about thirty
men of Israel.

20:32 And the children of Benjamin are smitten down before
us, as at the first. But the children of Israe us flee, and
draw them from the city unto the highways.

20:33 And alof Israel rose up out of their place, and put
themselves in array at Band the liers in wait of Israel came
forth out of their places, even omeadows of Gibeah.

20:34 And there came against Gibeah ten thousand cut of all
Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evilhem.

20:35 And the LORD smote Benjamin before Israel: and the childre destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand
and an : all these drew the sword.

20:36 So the children of Benjamin saw thae smitten: for the
men of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, becauseed unto
the liers in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.

20:37 Andin wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the
liers in wait drew theg, and smote all the city with the
edge of the sword.

20:38 Now thereointed sign between the men of Israel and
the liers in wait, that theyke a great flame with smoke rise
up out of the city.

20:39 And when tsrael retired in the battle, Benjamin began
to smite and kill of the ml about thirty persons: for they
said, Surely they are smitten down be in the first battle.

20:40 But when the flame began to arise up out  with a
pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and, beholme of the city ascended up to heaven.

20:41 And when the men of Israeain, the men of Benjamin
were amazed: for they saw that evil was come 
20:42 Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel untof the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and them
which came outies they destroyed in the midst of them.

20:43 Thus they inclosed th round about, and chased them,
and trode them down with ease over agaitoward the
sunrising.

20:44 And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousl these were
men of valour.

20:45 And they turned and fled toward the unto the rock of
Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways fivmen;
and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men20:46 So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and fiveen that drew the sword; all these were men of valour.

20:47 But six h turned and fled to the wilderness unto the
rock Rimmon, and abode in mmon four months.

20:48 And the men of Israel turned again upon the cf
Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the menity, as the beast, and all that came to hand: also they set
on fire alies that they came to.

21:1 Now the men of Israel had sworn in MizpehThere shall
not any of us give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.

21people came to the house of God, and abode there till
even before God, up their voices, and wept sore; 21:3 And
said, O LORD God of Israel,  come to pass in Israel, that
there should be to day one tribe lacking?  21:4 And it came
to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early,there an
altar, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.

21:5ildren of Israel said, Who is there among all the
tribes of Israel tha up with the congregation unto the LORD?
For they had made a great oatng him that came not up to the
LORD to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely death.

21:6 And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin th, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.

21:7 Howdo for wives for them that remain, seeing we have
sworn by the LORD thnot give them of our daughters to
wives?  21:8 And they said, What oneof the tribes of Israel
that came not up to Mizpeh to the LORD? And, be came none
to the camp from Jabeshgilead to the assembly.

21:9 For twere numbered, and, behold, there were none of the
inhabitants of Jabehere.

21:10 And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of test, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants
of Jabeth the edge of the sword, with the women and the
children.

21:11 And e thing that ye shall do, Ye shall utterly destroy
every male, and eveh lain by man.

21:12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabeshgiour
hundred young virgins, that had known no man by lying with any mal brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of
Canaan.d the whole congregation sent some to speak to the children of
Benjamie in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto
them.

21:14 And Benj again at that time; and they gave them wives
which they had saved aliomen of Jabeshgilead: and yet so
they sufficed them not.

21:15 And thpented them for Benjamin, because that the LORD
had made a breach in tf Israel.

21:16 Then the elders of the congregation said, How shall wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of
Benja7 And they said, There must be an inheritance for them
that be escapedin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of
Israel.

21:18 Howbeit we maythem wives of our daughters: for the
children of Israel have sworn, saed be he that giveth a wife
to Benjamin.

21:19 Then they said, Behold a feast of the LORD in Shiloh
yearly in a place which is on the northethel, on the east
side of the highway that goeth up from Bethel to Shon the
south of Lebonah.

21:20 Therefore they commanded the children , saying, Go
and lie in wait in the vineyards; 21:21 And see, and, behe
daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out ofrds, and catch you every man his wife of the daughters of
Shiloh, and and of Benjamin.

21:22 And it shall be, when their fathers or their be unto
us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be favourable unto r sakes: because we reserved not to each man his wife in the
war: for give unto them at this time, that ye should be
guilty.

21:23 And the  Benjamin did so, and took them wives,
according to their number, of tanced, whom they caught: and
they went and returned unto their inheritrepaired the
cities, and dwelt in them.

21:24 And the children of Isred thence at that time, every
man to his tribe and to his family, and out from thence
every man to his inheritance.

21:25 In those days theking in Israel: every man did that
which was right in his own eyes.


of Ruth


1:1 Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, twas a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehemjudah went to
the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.

1:2 And the  man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife
Naomi, and the name of hiMahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of
Bethlehemjudah. And they came into y of Moab, and continued
there.

1:3 And Elimelech Naomi’s husband de was left, and her two
sons.

1:4 And they took them wives of the wom the name of the one
was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and th there
about ten years.

1:5 And Mahlon and Chilion died also both of the woman was
left of her two sons and her husband.

1:6 Then she arosdaughters in law, that she might return
from the country of Moab: for rd in the country of Moab how
that the LORD had visited his people in m bread.

1:7 Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was,o daughters in law with her; and they went on the way to return unto
tJudah.

1:8 And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, Go, return eother’s house: the LORD deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt
with nd with me.

1:9 The LORD grant you that ye may find rest, each of youse
of her husband. Then she kissed them; and they lifted up their voic.

1:10 And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto t
1:11 And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with mee yet any more sons in my womb, that they may be your
husbands?  1:12 , my daughters, go your way; for I am too
old to have an husband. If Iy, I have hope, if I should have
an husband also to night, and should ns; 1:13 Would ye
tarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay fom
having husbands? nay, my daughters; for it grieveth me much for youat the hand of the LORD is gone out against me.

1:14 And they lifted ice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed
her mother in law; but Ruth clav

1:15 And she said, Behold, thy sister in law is gone back unto her
p her gods: return thou after thy sister in law.

1:16 And Ruth said, I not to leave thee, or to return from
following after thee: for whitheest, I will go; and where
thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shallple, and thy God
my God: 1:17 Where thou diest, will I die, and there buried:
the LORD do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part t.

1:18 When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, thft speaking unto her.

1:19 So they two went until they came to Bethlet came to
pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city waout them, and they said, Is this Naomi?  1:20 And she said unto
them, t Naomi, call me Mara: for the Almighty hath dealt
very bitterly with I went out full and the LORD hath brought me home again empty:
why thee Naomi, seeing the LORD hath testified against me,
and the Almighty hed me?  1:22 So Naomi returned, and Ruth
the Moabitess, her daughter iich returned out of
the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem inning of
barley harvest.

2:1 And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband’ty man of wealth,
of the family of Elimelech; and his name was Boaz.

th the Moabitess said unto Naomi, Let me now go to the
field, and gleaorn after him in whose sight I shall find
grace.

And she said unto heaughter.

2:3 And she went, and came, and gleaned in the field after t: and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging
unto Boaz,f the kindred of Elimelech.

2:4 And, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehemunto the reapers,
The LORD be with you. And they answered him, The LORee.

2:5 Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapersmsel is this?  2:6 And the servant that was set over the
reapers answe, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back
with Naomi out of the counb: 2:7 And she said, I pray you,
let me glean and gather after the reathe sheaves: so she
came, and hath continued even from the morning untt she
tarried a little in the house.

2:8 Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Henot, my daughter? Go not to
glean in another field, neither go from heide here fast by
my maidens: 2:9 Let thine eyes be on the field that t, and
go thou after them: have I not charged the young men that they such thee? and when thou art athirst, go unto the vessels, and
drink of the young men have drawn.

2:10 Then she fell on her face, and bowed the ground, and
said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes, touldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger?  2:11 And Boaz
a said unto her, It hath fully been shewed me, all that
thou hast done ther in law since the death of thine
husband: and how thou hast left td thy mother, and the
land of thy nativity, and art come unto a people knewest
not heretofore.

2:12 The LORD recompense thy work, and a ful given thee of
the LORD God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come

2:13 Then she said, Let me find favour in thy sight, my lord; for thst comforted me, and for that thou hast spoken friendly unto
thine hanf thine handmaidens.

2:14 And Boaz said unto her, At mealtime come theat of
the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside the
reapers: and he reached her parched corn, and she did eat, and wiced, and left.

2:15 And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commandng men,
saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her And let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and
leave she may glean them, and rebuke her not.

2:17 So she gleaned in the fieven, and beat out that she had
gleaned: and it was about an ephah of :18 And she took it up, and went into the city: and her mother in law
e had gleaned: and she brought forth, and gave to her that
she had resr she was sufficed.

2:19 And her mother in law said unto her, Where hleaned to
day?  and where wroughtest thou? blessed be he that did takeof thee. And she shewed her mother in law with whom she had wrought,
ae man’s name with whom I wrought to day is Boaz.

2:20 And Naomi saidaughter in law, Blessed be he of the
LORD, who hath not left off his o the living and to the
dead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is nearo us, one of
our next kinsmen.

2:21 And Ruth the Moabitess said, He s fast by my young men, until they have ended all my harvest.

2:22 Andid unto Ruth her daughter in law, It is good, my
daughter, that thou ghis maidens, that they meet thee not
in any other field.

2:23 So she by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of
barley harvest and of est; and dwelt with her mother in law.

3:1 Then Naomi her mother in lto her, My daughter, shall I
not seek rest for thee, that it may be wehee?  3:2 And now is
not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou old, he
winnoweth barley to night in the threshingfloor.

3:3 Wash thyore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon
thee, and get thee downor: but make not thyself known unto
the man, until he shall have done drinking.

3:4 And it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mace where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in, and uncover his feet,
and down; and he will tell thee what thou shalt do.

3:5 And she said untthat thou sayest unto me I will do.

3:6 And she went down unto the flid according to all that
her mother in law bade her.

3:7 And when Boa and drunk, and his heart was merry, he
went to lie down at the end off corn: and she came softly,
and uncovered his feet, and laid her downit came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and
turned himsehold, a woman lay at his feet.

3:9 And he said, Who art thou? And she I am Ruth thine
handmaid: spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmou art
a near kinsman.

3:10 And he said, Blessed be thou of the LORD,er: for thou
hast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the binasmuch as thou followedst not young men, whether poor or rich.

3:11 daughter, fear not; I will do to thee all that thou
requirest: for aly people doth know that thou art a
virtuous woman.

3:12 And now it isI am thy near kinsman: howbeit there is a
kinsman nearer than I.

3:13 night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will
perform unto trt of a kinsman, well; let him do the
kinsman’s part: but if he willhe part of a kinsman to thee,
then will I do the part of a kinsman to e LORD liveth: lie
down until the morning.

3:14 And she lay at his fee morning: and she rose up before
one could know another. And he said, be known that a woman
came into the floor.

3:15 Also he said, Bring hat thou hast upon thee, and hold
it.

And when she held it, he measursures of barley, and laid it
on her: and she went into the city.

3:16he came to her mother in law, she said, Who art thou,
my daughter? Andher all that the man had done to her.

3:17 And she said, These six mebarley gave he me; for he
said to me, Go not empty unto thy mother in  Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how the
matter for the man will not be in rest, until he have
finished the thing thi1 Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there: and,
behold,  of whom Boaz spake came by; unto whom he said, Ho,
such a one! turn adown here. And he turned aside, and sat
down.

4:2 And he took ten meners of the city, and said, Sit ye
down here. And they sat down.

4:3 Aunto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the
country of Moaba parcel of land, which was our brother
Elimelech’s: 4:4 And I thougtise thee, saying, Buy it
before the inhabitants, and before the elderple. If thou
wilt redeem it, redeem it: but if thou wilt not redeem it
me, that I may know: for there is none to redeem it beside thee; and  thee. And he said, I will redeem it.

4:5 Then said Boaz, What day ththe field of the hand of
Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth the Moab wife of the
dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritand the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar
mine ownce: redeem thou my right to thyself; for I cannot
redeem it.

4:7 Now the manner in former time in Israel concerning
redeeming and concernin, for to confirm all things; a man
plucked off his shoe, and gave it thbour: and this was a
testimony in Israel.

4:8 Therefore the kinsman oaz, Buy it for thee. So he drew
off his shoe.

4:9 And Boaz said untos, and unto all the people, Ye are
witnesses this day, that I have bou Elimelech’s, and
all that was Chilion’s and Mahlon’s, of the haaomi.

4:10 Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I pu be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance,
the of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, and
from the gatplace: ye are witnesses this day.

4:11 And all the people that were i, and the elders, said,
We are witnesses. The LORD make the woman thatnto thine
house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the houel: and do thou worthily in Ephratah, and be famous in Bethlehem:
4:12hy house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bare
unto Judah, of tch the LORD shall give thee of this young
woman.

4:13 So Boaz took Rue was his wife: and when he went in unto
her, the LORD gave her concepe bare a son.

4:14 And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the LORDath
not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famel.

4:15 And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, and a nourhine old age: for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is
betee than seven sons, hath born him.

4:16 And Naomi took the child, andn her bosom, and became
nurse unto it.

4:17 And the women her neighboit a name, saying, There is a
son born to Naomi; and they called his ne is the father of
Jesse, the father of David.

4:18 Now these are thes of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,
4:19 And Hezron begat Ram, and Ram badab, 4:20 And Amminadab
begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon, 4:21n begat Boaz,
and Boaz begat Obed, 4:22 And Obed begat Jesse, and Jessvid.




The First Book of Samuel

Otherwise Called:

The First Book os


1:1 Now there was a certain man of Ramathaimzophim, of mount Ephrais name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the
son of  son of Zuph, an Ephrathite: 1:2 And he had two wives;
the name of theannah, and the name of the other Peninnah:
and Peninnah had children,  had no children.

1:3 And this man went up out of his city yearly to d to
sacrifice unto the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of E and Phinehas, the priests of the LORD, were there.

1:4 And when the hat Elkanah offered, he gave to Peninnah
his wife, and to all her sonsaughters, portions: 1:5 But
unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion; for annah: but the
LORD had shut up her womb.

1:6 And her adversary also her sore, for to make her fret,
because the LORD had shut up her womb.as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of
the LORD, oked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.

1:8 Then said Elkanah d to her, Hannah, why weepest thou?
and why eatest thou not? and why it grieved? am not I better
to thee than ten sons?  1:9 So Hannah rose hey had eaten in
Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest  seat
by a post of the temple of the LORD.

1:10 And she was in bitterul, and prayed unto the LORD, and
wept sore.

1:11 And she vowed a vow, O LORD of hosts, if thou wilt
indeed look on the affliction of thine and remember me, and
not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thid a man
child, then I will give him unto the LORD all the days of his there shall no razor come upon his head.

1:12 And it came to pass, anued praying before the LORD,
that Eli marked her mouth.

1:13 Now Hanpake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her
voice was not heard: ti thought she had been drunken.

1:14 And Eli said unto her, How long be drunken? put away
thy wine from thee.

1:15 And Hannah answered andmy lord, I am a woman of a
sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wineg drink, but have
poured out my soul before the LORD.

1:16 Count not aid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the
abundance of my complainthave I spoken hitherto.

1:17 Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace:od of Israel
grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.

1:1said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the
woman went hedid eat, and her countenance was no more sad.

1:19 And they rose up ining early, and worshipped before the
LORD, and returned, and came to  to Ramah: and Elkanah knew
Hannah his wife; and the LORD remembered h Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come about after
Hannah eived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel,
saying, Becausasked him of the LORD.

1:21 And the man Elkanah, and all his house, wffer unto the
LORD the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.

1:22 But Hannahup; for she said unto her husband, I will not
go up until the child bed then I will bring him, that he
may appear before the LORD, and therefor ever.

1:23 And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth;
tarry until thou have weaned him; only the LORD establish his word. an abode, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.

1:24 And when sned him, she took him up with her, with three
bullocks, and one ephah and a bottle of wine, and brought
him unto the house of the LORD in Shhe child was young.

1:25 And they slew a bullock, and brought the chi
1:26 And she said, Oh my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the
stood by thee here, praying unto the LORD.

1:27 For this child I praye LORD hath given me my petition
which I asked of him: 1:28 Therefore e lent him to the LORD;
as long as he liveth he shall be lent to the Le worshipped
the LORD there.

2:1 And Hannah prayed, and said, My hearh in the LORD, mine
horn is exalted in the LORD: my mouth is enlarged enemies;
because I rejoice in thy salvation.

2:2 There is none holy a for there is none beside thee:
neither is there any rock like our God no more so exceeding proudly; let not arrogancy come out of
your moutLORD is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are
weighed.

2:4 The bmighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are
girded with strengthey that were full have hired out themselves for bread; and they
that wceased: so that the barren hath born seven; and she
that hath many chixed feeble.

2:6 The LORD killeth, and maketh alive: he bringeth down ve,
and bringeth up.

2:7 The LORD maketh poor, and maketh rich: he br and
lifteth up.

2:8 He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and liftbeggar
from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them  throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the LORD’s, and
h the world upon them.

2:9 He will keep the feet of his saints, and thall be
silent in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.

2:10aries of the LORD shall be broken to pieces; out of
heaven shall he ththem: the LORD shall judge the ends of
the earth; and he shall give st his king, and exalt the
horn of his anointed.

2:11 And Elkanah went o his house. And the child did
minister unto the LORD before Eli the p2 Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial; they knew not the LORD.

2:priest’s custom with the people was, that, when any man
offered sacrpriest’s servant came, while the flesh was in
seething, with a fleshree teeth in his hand; 2:14 And he
struck it into the pan, or kettle, ron, or pot; all that the
fleshhook brought up the priest took for himhey did in
Shiloh unto all the Israelites that came thither.

2:15 Alsey burnt the fat, the priest’s servant came, and
said to the man thaced, Give flesh to roast for the priest;
for he will not have sodden fe, but raw.

2:16 And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to b
presently, and then take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would
, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will
take it by foWherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the
LORD: forred the offering of the LORD.

2:18 But Samuel ministered before the Lg a child, girded with
a linen ephod.

2:19 Moreover his mother made he coat, and brought it to him
from year to year, when she came up withnd to offer the
yearly sacrifice.

2:20 And Eli blessed Elkanah and hid said, The LORD give
thee seed of this woman for the loan which is leLORD. And
they went unto their own home.

2:21 And the LORD visited Hahat she conceived, and bare
three sons and two daughters. And the chilew before the
LORD.

2:22 Now Eli was very old, and heard all that hisnto all
Israel; and how they lay with the women that assembled at the the tabernacle of the congregation.

2:23 And he said unto them, Why dthings? for I hear of your
evil dealings by all this people.

2:24 Nayr it is no good report that I hear: ye make the
LORD’s people to tragress.

2:25 If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge hima man sin against the LORD, who shall intreat for him? Notwithstandingkened not unto the voice of their father, because the LORD
would slay 6 And the child Samuel grew on, and was in favour both with the
LORD, ith men.

2:27 And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto himh the LORD, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father,
when th Egypt in Pharaoh’s house?  2:28 And did I choose him
out of all the Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine
altar, to burn incense, tophod before me? and did I give
unto the house of thy father all the ofde by fire of the
children of Israel?  2:29 Wherefore kick ye at my sad at
mine offering, which I have commanded in my habitation; and honouons above me, to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the
offesrael my people?  2:30 Wherefore the LORD God of Israel
saith, I said at thy house, and the house of thy father,
should walk before me for ew the LORD saith, Be it far from
me; for them that honour me I will hothey that despise me
shall be lightly esteemed.

2:31 Behold, the dayst I will cut off thine arm, and the arm
of thy father’s house, that l not be an old man in thine
house.

2:32 And thou shalt see an enemy tation, in all the wealth
which God shall give Israel: and there shallold man in
thine house for ever.

2:33 And the man of thine, whom I sht off from mine altar,
shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve t and all the
increase of thine house shall die in the flower of their And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two
sons,and Phinehas; in one day they shall die both of them.

2:35 And I willp a faithful priest, that shall do according
to that which is in mine in my mind: and I will build him a
sure house; and he shall walk befornted for ever.

2:36 And it shall come to pass, that every one that ishine
house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver and a moad, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests’
off I may eat a piece of bread.

3:1 And the child Samuel ministered untobefore Eli. And the
word of the LORD was precious in those days; therepen vision.

3:2 And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid d
place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see; 3:3 And
mp of God went out in the temple of the LORD, where the ark
of God wasuel was laid down to sleep; 3:4 That the LORD
called Samuel: and he ane am I.

3:5 And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledhe said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.

3:6 RD called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went
to Eli, and sai I; for thou didst call me. And he answered,
I called not, my son; lie.

3:7 Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, neither was the word of tet revealed unto him.

3:8 And the LORD called Samuel again the third d said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And Eli
perceived that the ild.

3:9 Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if
he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, LORD; for thy servant
heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.

3:10 And the LORD od, and called as at other times,
Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answeredor thy servant heareth.

3:11 And the LORD said to Samuel, Behold, I wthing in Israel,
at which both the ears of every one that heareth it sle.

3:12 In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I haoncerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.

3:13 For d him that I will judge his house for ever for the
iniquity which he kause his sons made themselves vile, and
he restrained them not.

3:14 ore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the
iniquity of Eli’s hnot be purged with sacrifice nor
offering for ever.

3:15 And Samuel lhe morning, and opened the doors of the
house of the LORD. And Samuel hew Eli the vision.

3:16 Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my
answered, Here am I.

3:17 And he said, What is the thing that the LOd unto thee?
I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and m if
thou hide any thing from me of all the things that he said unto th8 And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he
saihe LORD: let him do what seemeth him good.

3:19 And Samuel grew, and as with him, and did let none of
his words fall to the ground.

3:20 Ael from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was
established to be a the LORD.

3:21 And the LORD appeared again in Shiloh: for the LORD rmself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the LORD.

4:1 And the word ome to all Israel. Now Israel went out
against the Philistines to battltched beside Ebenezer: and
the Philistines pitched in Aphek.

4:2 And stines put themselves in array against Israel: and
when they joined baael was smitten before the Philistines:
and they slew of the army in tbout four thousand men.

4:3 And when the people were come into the cae elders of Israel
said, Wherefore hath the LORD smitten us to day beflistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of
Shil, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of
the hand of our4:4 So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence
the covenant of the LORD of hosts, which dwelleth between
the cherubims:o sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were
there with the ark of the covod.

4:5 And when the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the carael shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.

4:6 An Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said,
What meaneth thehis great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?
And they understood that the LORD was come into the camp.

4:7 And the Philistines were afraid, d is come into
the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath no a
thing heretofore.

4:8 Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of thethese mighty
Gods? these are the Gods that smote the Egyptians with alues
in the wilderness.

4:9 Be strong and quit yourselves like men, O tines, that ye
be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been to yourselves like men, and fight.

4:10 And the Philistines fought, and mitten, and they fled
every man into his tent: and there was a very grer; for
there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.

4:11 And the aras taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and
Phinehas, were slain.

4re ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and came to
Shiloh the same his clothes rent, and with earth upon his
head.

4:13 And when he cameat upon a seat by the wayside
watching: for his heart trembled for thed. And when the man
came into the city, and told it, all the city crie4 And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth
ththis tumult? And the man came in hastily, and told Eli.

4:15 Now Eli nd eight years old; and his eyes were dim,
that he could not see.

4:1an said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the army, and
I fled to daye army. And he said, What is there done, my
son?  4:17 And the messeng and said, Israel is fled before
the Philistines, and there hath been t slaughter among the
people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehdead, and the
ark of God is taken.

4:18 And it came to pass, when he on of the ark of God, that
he fell from off the seat backward by the s gate, and his
neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heahad
judged Israel forty years.

4:19 And his daughter in law, Phinehasas with child, near to
be delivered: and when she heard the tidings th of God was
taken, and that her father in law and her husband were dead
herself and travailed; for her pains came upon her.

4:20 And about of her death the women that stood by her said
unto her, Fear not; for born a son. But she answered not,
neither did she regard it.

4:21 And the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed
from Israel: becausef God was taken, and because of her
father in law and her husband.

4: said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of
God is taken.the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from
Ebenezer unto
5:2 When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into th Dagon, and set it by Dagon.

5:3 And when they of Ashdod arose early , behold, Dagon
was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark o LORD. And
they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.

5:4 And wrose early on the morrow morning, behold, Dagon was
fallen upon his faground before the ark of the LORD; and the
head of Dagon and both the his hands were cut off upon the
threshold; only the stump of Dagon wasim.

5:5 Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come ints house, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this
day.

5:6and of the LORD was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he
destroyed them, hem with emerods, even Ashdod and the
coasts thereof.

5:7 And when thshdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark
of the God of Israel shal with us: for his hand is sore
upon us, and upon Dagon our god.

5:8 Terefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines
unto them, and shall we do with the ark of the God of
Israel? And they answered, Let tthe God of Israel be carried
about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of Israel about
thither.

5:9 And it was so, that, after they had carbout, the hand of
the LORD was against the city with a very great destnd he
smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emheir secret parts.

5:10 Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. to pass,
as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out
They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay upeople.

5:11 So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the
s, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let
it go agaown place, that it slay us not, and our people: for
there was a deadlyn throughout all the city; the hand of
God was very heavy there.

5:12n that died not were smitten with the emerods: and the
cry of the cityo heaven.

6:1 And the ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philiven months.

6:2 And the Philistines called for the priests and the diing, What shall we do to the ark of the LORD? tell us wherewith we
shat to his place.

6:3 And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God send
it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: th be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not
removed f6:4 Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shallhim? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden
mice, accordinumber of the lords of the Philistines: for one
plague was on you all,ur lords.

6:5 Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and imar
mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of
Israenture he will lighten his hand from off you, and from
off your gods,  off your land.

6:6 Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts, as the Eand
Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully amod they not let the people go, and they departed?  6:7 Now
therefore maart, and take two milch kine, on which there
hath come no yoke, and tito the cart, and bring their
calves home from them: 6:8 And take the aORD, and lay it
upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye rer a
trespass offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it awt may go.

6:9 And see, if it goeth up by the way of his own coast to
sh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we
shall kn is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that
happened to us.

he men did so; and took two milch kine, and tied them to the
cart, andeir calves at home: 6:11 And they laid the ark of
the LORD upon the cae coffer with the mice of gold and the
images of their emerods.

6:12 ne took the straight way to the way of Bethshemesh, and
went along theowing as they went, and turned not aside to
the right hand or to the lthe lords of the Philistines went
after them unto the border of Bethsh13 And they of Bethshemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the
valthey lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced
to see it.

6e cart came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and
stood there,  was a great stone: and they clave the wood of
the cart, and offered tburnt offering unto the LORD.

6:15 And the Levites took down the ark , and the coffer
that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, anon the
great stone: and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offeringscrificed sacrifices the same day unto the LORD.

6:16 And when the fiv the Philistines had seen it, they
returned to Ekron the same day.

6:ese are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned
for a trespag unto the LORD; for Ashdod one, for Gaza one,
for Askelon one, for Gar Ekron one; 6:18 And the golden
mice, according to the number of all of the Philistines
belonging to the five lords, both of fenced cities,ntry
villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set dowf the LORD: which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of
Joshuahemite.

6:19 And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they had lothe ark of the LORD, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and
thnd ten men: and the people lamented, because the LORD had
smitten manypeople with a great slaughter.

6:20 And the men of Bethshemesh said,  to stand before this
holy LORD God? and to whom shall he go up from und they sent
messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjathjearim, saying, Tines have brought again the ark of the LORD; come ye down, and
fetch iou.

7:1 And the men of Kirjathjearim came, and fetched up the ark of and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and
sanctified s son to keep the ark of the LORD.

7:2 And it came to pass, while the in Kirjathjearim, that
the time was long; for it was twenty years: an house of
Israel lamented after the LORD.

7:3 And Samuel spake unto ae of Israel, saying, If ye do
return unto the LORD with all your heart away the strange
gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your o the
LORD, and serve him only: and he will deliver you out of the hanhilistines.

7:4 Then the children of Israel did put away Baalim and And
served the LORD only.

7:5 And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to MiI will pray for
you unto the LORD.

7:6 And they gathered together to  drew water, and poured
it out before the LORD, and fasted on that day there, We
have sinned against the LORD. And Samuel judged the childreel
in Mizpeh.

7:7 And when the Philistines heard that the children ofre
gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up
aael. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were
afraid of thes.

7:8 And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Cease not to cry unD our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the
Philistind Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a burnt
offering whoe LORD: and Samuel cried unto the LORD for
Israel; and the LORD heard 0 And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines
dr battle against Israel: but the LORD thundered with a
great thunder on upon the Philistines, and discomfited them;
and they were smitten bef.

7:11 And the men of Israel went out of Mizpeh, and pursued the
Philnd smote them, until they came under Bethcar.

7:12 Then Samuel took and set it between Mizpeh and Shen, and
called the name of it Ebenezer,itherto hath the LORD helped
us.

7:13 So the Philistines were subduedcame no more into the
coast of Israel: and the hand of the LORD was agilistines
all the days of Samuel.

7:14 And the cities which the Phili taken from Israel were
restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; coasts thereof
did Israel deliver out of the hands of the Philistinese was
peace between Israel and the Amorites.

7:15 And Samuel judged Ihe days of his life.

7:16 And he went from year to year in circuit tod Gilgal,
and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all those places.

7:17 And was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there
he judged Israel; anbuilt an altar unto the LORD.

8:1 And it came to pass, when Samuel wa he made his sons
judges over Israel.

8:2 Now the name of his firstbo; and the name of his
second, Abiah: they were judges in Beersheba.

8s sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre,
and took  perverted judgment.

8:4 Then all the elders of Israel gathered themsther, and
came to Samuel unto Ramah, 8:5 And said unto him, Behold, th, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us
liations.

8:6 But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us g to
judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the LORD.

8:7 And the LORD saidel, Hearken unto the voice of the
people in all that they say unto the have not rejected
thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not r them.

8:8 According to all the works which they have done since thet
I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they han me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.

8:9 Now theren unto their voice: howbeit yet protest
solemnly unto them, and shew tnner of the king that shall
reign over them.

8:10 And Samuel told allof the LORD unto the people that
asked of him a king.

8:11 And he sail be the manner of the king that shall reign
over you: He will take yoand appoint them for himself, for
his chariots, and to be his horsemen shall run before his
chariots.

8:12 And he will appoint him captainssands, and captains
over fifties; and will set them to ear his ground,p his
harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of ts.

8:13 And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and t and to be bakers.

8:14 And he will take your fields, and your vineyaur
oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants.

 will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards,
and give to s, and to his servants.

8:16 And he will take your menservants, and yvants, and
your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to h8:17 He will take the tenth of your sheep: and ye shall be his
servantAnd ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye
shall hyou; and the LORD will not hear you in that day.

8:19 Nevertheless thfused to obey the voice of Samuel; and
they said, Nay; but we will haver us; 8:20 That we also may
be like all the nations; and that our kin us, and go out
before us, and fight our battles.

8:21 And Samuel heawords of the people, and he rehearsed
them in the ears of the LORD.

8 LORD said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make
them a king. said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man
unto his city.

9:1 Now t man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of
Abiel, the son of Zeon of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a
Benjamite, a mighty man of powerhe had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a
goodly: aas not among the children of Israel a goodlier
person than he: from hi and upward he was higher than any
of the people.

9:3 And the asses o’s father were lost. And Kish said to
Saul his son, Take now one of  with thee, and arise, go
seek the asses.

9:4 And he passed through mm, and passed through the land
of Shalisha, but they found them not: tassed through the
land of Shalim, and there they were not: and he passh the
land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.

9:5 And when tome to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his
servant that was with him, Ct us return; lest my father
leave caring for the asses, and take thougthere is in this city a man of
God, and he is an honourable man; all that he saith cometh surely to
pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can shew us our way that
we should go.

9:7 Then said Saul to hisut, behold, if we go, what shall
we bring the man? for the bread is sp vessels, and there is
not a present to bring to the man of God: what :8 And the
servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here e
fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of Gous our way.

9:9 (Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to enquire of e
spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for he that is now called a
s beforetime called a Seer.)  9:10 Then said Saul to his
servant, Welle, let us go. So they went unto the city where
the man of God was.

9:they went up the hill to the city, they found young
maidens going out er, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
9:12 And they answered them,d, He is; behold, he is before
you: make haste now, for he came to dayity; for there is a
sacrifice of the people to day in the high place: n as ye
be come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before h the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come,
becbless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that be
bidden. Now thereet you up; for about this time ye shall find
him.

9:14 And they went  city: and when they were come into the
city, behold, Samuel came out them, for to go up to the high
place.

9:15 Now the LORD had told Samuear a day before Saul came,
saying, 9:16 To morrow about this time I whee a man out of
the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to bever my
people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of thes: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is
come unto md when Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said unto him, Behold the man
whom I hee of! this same shall reign over my people.

9:18 Then Saul drew nea in the gate, and said, Tell me, I
pray thee, where the seer’s house And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before
me un place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to morrow
I will let theed will tell thee all that is in thine heart.

9:20 And as for thine asre lost three days ago, set not thy
mind on them; for they are found.  is all the desire of
Israel? Is it not on thee, and on all thy father21 And
Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest o of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the
tribe o? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?  9:22 And
Samuel took Saul annt, and brought them into the parlour,
and made them sit in the chiefemong them that were bidden,
which were about thirty persons.

9:23 Andaid unto the cook, Bring the portion which I gave
thee, of which I saie, Set it by thee.

9:24 And the cook took up the shoulder, and that won it,
and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is l before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for
thee sd, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with
Samuel that day.

9hen they were come down from the high place into the city,
Samuel commaul upon the top of the house.

9:26 And they arose early: and it camebout the spring of the
day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the ng, Up, that
I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out bem,
he and Samuel, abroad.

9:27 And as they were going down to the encity, Samuel said
to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us, (and he  but
stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.

Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and
kissed him, Is it not because the LORD hath anointed thee to
be captain over hise?  10:2 When thou art departed from me
to day, then thou shalt find tRachel’s sepulchre in the
border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they wil thee, The asses
which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy faleft
the care of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall  son?  10:3 Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou
shalt e plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men
going up to God  one carrying three kids, and another
carrying three loaves of bread, r carrying a bottle of wine:
10:4 And they will salute thee, and give oaves of bread;
which thou shalt receive of their hands.

10:5 After thalt come to the hill of God, where is the
garrison of the Philistinesall come to pass, when thou art
come thither to the city, that thou sh company of prophets
coming down from the high place with a psaltery, ret, and a
pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy: 10:Spirit of the LORD will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with
td shalt be turned into another man.

10:7 And let it be, when these siome unto thee, that thou do
as occasion serve thee; for God is with th And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will
come thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice
sacrifices of peace o seven days shalt thou tarry, till I
come to thee, and shew thee what lt do.

10:9 And it was so, that when he had turned his back to go fro God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass
that daynd when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of
prophets mnd the Spirit of God came upon him, and he
prophesied among them.

10: to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that,
behold, he prophed among the prophets, then the people said one to
another, What is th come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also
among the prophets?  10:12 Ane same place answered and
said, But who is their father? Therefore it overb, Is Saul
also among the prophets?  10:13 And when he had made anophesying, he came to the high place.

10:14 And Saul’s uncle said ud to his servant, Whither went
ye?  And he said, To seek the asses: ansaw that they were no
where, we came to Samuel.

10:15 And Saul’s und, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said
unto you.

10:16 And Saul sas uncle, He told us plainly that the asses
were found. But of the matt kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he
told him not.

10:17 And Samuel caleople together unto the LORD to Mizpeh;
10:18 And said unto the childrl, Thus saith the LORD God of
Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egyptered you out of the
hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all and of
them that oppressed you: 10:19 And ye have this day rejected yo himself saved you out of all your adversities and your
tribulations;  said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us.
Now therefore present youore the LORD by your tribes, and
by your thousands.

10:20 And when Saaused all the tribes of Israel to come
near, the tribe of Benjamin was0:21 When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their
fae family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was
taken: and wought him, he could not be found.

10:22 Therefore they enquired of thher, if the man should
yet come thither. And the LORD answered, Beholdid himself
among the stuff.

10:23 And they ran and fetched him thencehe stood among the
people, he was higher than any of the people from hs and
upward.

10:24 And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whoD hath
chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And aople shouted, and said, God save the king.

10:25 Then Samuel told thee manner of the kingdom, and wrote
it in a book, and laid it up before And Samuel sent all the
people away, every man to his house.

10:26 Aso went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a
band of men, whose hhad touched.

10:27 But the children of Belial said, How shall this ma And
they despised him, and brought no presents. But he held his peaceen Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against
Jabeshgilead: andn of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a
covenant with us, and we will ser
11:2 And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, On this condition will I
enant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes,
and lay it oach upon all Israel.

11:3 And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Gin days’
respite, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of nd then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.

11:e the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings
in the ears oe: and all the people lifted up their voices,
and wept.

11:5 And, behcame after the herd out of the field; and Saul
said, What aileth the p they weep? And they told him the
tidings of the men of Jabesh.

11:6 Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings,
and his angeled greatly.

11:7 And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in piecet
them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the hands of messengers, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so
shall it bo his oxen. And the fear of the LORD fell on the
people, and they cameone consent.

11:8 And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children ofere
three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.

11:said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say
unto the men of ad, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot,
ye shall have help. And ths came and shewed it to the men
of Jabesh; and they were glad.

11:10 the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out
unto you, and ye sh us all that seemeth good unto you.

11:11 And it was so on the morrowl put the people in three
companies; and they came into the midst of t the morning
watch, and slew the Ammonites until the heat of the day: 
to pass, that they which remained were scattered, so that two of themeft together.

11:12 And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that sall Saul
reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
d Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day:
for to da hath wrought salvation in Israel.

11:14 Then said Samuel to the peopnd let us go to Gilgal,
and renew the kingdom there.

11:15 And all thwent to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king
before the LORD in Gilgaere they sacrificed sacrifices of
peace offerings before the LORD; andl and all the men of
Israel rejoiced greatly.

12:1 And Samuel said unrael, Behold, I have hearkened unto
your voice in all that ye said unthave made a king over you.

12:2 And now, behold, the king walketh befnd I am old and
grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you: and I h
before you from my childhood unto this day.

12:3 Behold, here I am: ainst me before the LORD, and before
his anointed: whose ox have I takse ass have I taken? or
whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? se hand have I
received any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I re it
you.

12:4 And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppresither hast thou taken ought of any man’s hand.

12:5 And he said unte LORD is witness against you, and his
anointed is witness this day, te not found ought in my hand.
And they answered, He is witness.

12:6 el said unto the people, It is the LORD that advanced
Moses and Aaron,brought your fathers up out of the land of
Egypt.

12:7 Now therefore l, that I may reason with you before the
LORD of all the righteous actORD, which he did to you and to
your fathers.

12:8 When Jacob was comypt, and your fathers cried unto the
LORD, then the LORD sent Moses anich brought forth your
fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in th

12:9 And when they forgat the LORD their God, he sold them into the
era, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the
Philistineo the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought
against them.

12:10 Aied unto the LORD, and said, We have sinned, because
we have forsaken  and have served Baalim and Ashtaroth: but
now deliver us out of the h enemies, and we will serve thee.

12:11 And the LORD sent Jerubbaal, , and Jephthah, and
Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your  every
side, and ye dwelled safe.

12:12 And when ye saw that Nahash tf the children of Ammon
came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a  reign over
us: when the LORD your God was your king.

12:13 Now thered the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye
have desired! and, behold,RD hath set a king over you.

12:14 If ye will fear the LORD, and serv obey his voice, and
not rebel against the commandment of the LORD, thoth ye and
also the king that reigneth over you continue following the
God: 12:15 But if ye will not obey the voice of the LORD, but rebel
ahe commandment of the LORD, then shall the hand of the LORD
be againstt was against your fathers.

12:16 Now therefore stand and see this grwhich the LORD
will do before your eyes.

12:17 Is it not wheat harvesI will call unto the LORD, and
he shall send thunder and rain; that yeive and see that your
wickedness is great, which ye have done in the s LORD, in
asking you a king.

12:18 So Samuel called unto the LORD; an sent thunder and
rain that day: and all the people greatly feared theSamuel.

12:19 And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servathe LORD thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins to ask us a king.

12:20 And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: y all this
wickedness: yet turn not aside from following the LORD, but LORD with all your heart; 12:21 And turn ye not aside: for then shoulder vain things, which cannot profit nor deliver; for they are
vain.

1the LORD will not forsake his people for his great name’s
sake: becaased the LORD to make you his people.

12:23 Moreover as for me, God fuld sin against the
LORD in ceasing to pray for you: but I will teach od and the
right way: 12:24 Only fear the LORD, and serve him in truthyour heart: for consider how great things he hath done for you.

12:25l still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye
and your king.

13:ul reigned one year; and when he had reigned two years over
Israel, 13ose him three thousand men of Israel; whereof two
thousand were with Schmash and in mount Bethel, and a
thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeamin: and the rest of the
people he sent every man to his tent.

13:3 A smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in
Geba, and the Philiard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet
throughout all the land, saying, rews hear.

13:4 And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garre
Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the
PhAnd the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.

13:5 And thes gathered themselves together to fight with
Israel, thirty thousand nd six thousand horsemen, and
people as the sand which is on the sea sltitude: and they
came up, and pitched in Michmash, eastward from Beth6 When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, (for the
peopstressed,) then the people did hide themselves in caves,
and in thicken rocks, and in high places, and in pits.

13:7 And some of the Hebrewr Jordan to the land of Gad and
Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilll the people followed
him trembling.

13:8 And he tarried seven days, to the set time that Samuel
had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilhe people were
scattered from him.

13:9 And Saul said, Bring hither afering to me, and peace
offerings. And he offered the burnt offering.
 it came to pass, that as soon as he had made an end of
offering the bng, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to
meet him, that he might .

13:11 And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because  the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not
within thointed, and that the Philistines gathered
themselves together at Michm Therefore said I, The
Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgaave not made
supplication unto the LORD: I forced myself therefore, ana
burnt offering.

13:13 And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done fooliu hast not
kept the commandment of the LORD thy God, which he commander
now would the LORD have established thy kingdom upon Israel for everut now thy kingdom shall not continue: the LORD hath sought him
a man own heart, and the LORD hath commanded him to be
captain over his peopuse thou hast not kept that which the
LORD commanded thee.

13:15 And se, and gat him up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of
Benjamin. And Saul numbeople that were present with him,
about six hundred men.

13:16 And Sauthan his son, and the people that were present
with them, abode in Gibamin: but the Philistines encamped
in Michmash.

13:17 And the spoiler of the camp of the Philistines in
three companies: one company turneday that leadeth to
Ophrah, unto the land of Shual: 13:18 And another ced the
way to Bethhoron: and another company turned to the way of the at looketh to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.

13:19 Now to smith found throughout all the land of Israel:
for the Philistines sthe Hebrews make them swords or spears:
13:20 But all the Israelites wo the Philistines, to sharpen
every man his share, and his coulter, an and his mattock.

13:21 Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and fornd
for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads.

13:22 Sere was neither
sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with
Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there
found.

13:23 And the garrison of the Philistines went to the passage of
Michmash.

14:1 Now it came to pass upon a day, thatthe son of Saul
said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, an over
to the Philistines’ garrison, that is on the other side. But h his father.

14:2 And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah unegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him
weix hundred men; 14:3 And Ahiah, the son of Ahitub,
Ichabod’s brotherof Phinehas, the son of Eli, the LORD’s
priest in Shiloh, wearing an the people knew not that
Jonathan was gone.

14:4 And between the pashich Jonathan sought to go over
unto the Philistines’ garrison, therp rock on the one
side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the nathe one was
Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.

14:5 The forefronne was situate northward over against
Michmash, and the other southwarinst Gibeah.

14:6 And Jonathan said to the young man that bare his arme,
and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised: it mahe LORD will work for us: for there is no restraint to the LORD
to savor by few.

14:7 And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is inrt: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.

14:8 Thnathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and
we will discover unto them.

14:9 If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to youwill stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.

14:10 Busay thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up: for
the LORD hath delivinto our hand: and this shall be a sign
unto us.

14:11 And both of thred themselves unto the garrison of the
Philistines: and the Philistinhold, the Hebrews come forth
out of the holes where they had hid thems:12 And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his
armourbearer, Come up to us, and we will shew you a thing.
And Jonathan said unto bearer, Come up after me: for the
LORD hath delivered them into the hal.

14:13 And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, anrbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his
armourbearer him.

14:14 And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armourbebout twenty men, within as it were an half acre of land,
which a yoke ht plow.

14:15 And there was trembling in the host, in the field, andthe people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled, and
thquaked: so it was a very great trembling.

14:16 And the watchmen of Seah of Benjamin looked; and,
behold, the multitude melted away, and thbeating down one
another.

14:17 Then said Saul unto the people that wim, Number now,
and see who is gone from us. And when they had numbereJonathan and his armourbearer were not there.

14:18 And Saul said untring hither the ark of God. For the
ark of God was at that time with t of Israel.

14:19 And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the prihe
noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increasedsaid unto the priest, Withdraw thine hand.

14:20 And Saul and all theat were with him assembled
themselves, and they came to the battle: anevery man’s
sword was against his fellow, and there was a very greatre.

14:21 Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before  which went up with them into the camp from the country round
about, eso turned to be with the Israelites that were with
Saul and Jonathan.
ise all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in mount
Ephraim, weard that the Philistines fled, even they also
followed hard after thettle.

14:23 So the LORD saved Israel that day: and the battle passed ethaven.

14:24 And the men of Israel were distressed that day: for Saured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food
until at I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the
people tasted any  And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey
upon the4:26 And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey
drno man put his hand to his mouth: for the people feared
the oath.

14:than heard not when his father charged the people with
the oath: where forth the end of the rod that was in his
hand, and dipped it in an hod put his hand to his mouth;
and his eyes were enlightened.

14:28 The one of the people, and said, Thy father straitly
charged the people w, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth
any food this day. And the peoint.

14:29 Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see,u, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a
little of t

14:30 How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to day of
of their enemies which they found? for had there not been
now a much gughter among the Philistines?  14:31 And they
smote the Philistines thm Michmash to Aijalon: and the
people were very faint.

14:32 And the on the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen,
and calves, and slew them on tround: and the people did eat them
with the blood.

14:33 Then they toaying, Behold, the people sin against the
LORD, in that they eat with  And he said, Ye have
transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this daAnd Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say
unto theme hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep,
and slay them hereand sin not against the LORD in eating
with the blood.

And all the peht every man his ox with him that night, and
slew them there.

14:35 Ailt an altar unto the LORD: the same was the first
altar that he built LORD.

14:36 And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by nspoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of
them said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said
the priest, Letear hither unto God.

14:37 And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go the
Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But hhim not that day.

14:38 And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the cthe people:
and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.

14: the LORD liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be in
Jonathan my sonll surely die. But there was not a man among
all the people that answe14:40 Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and
Jonatwill be on the other side. And the people said unto
Saul, Do what seemnto thee.

14:41 Therefore Saul said unto the LORD God of Israel, Givelot.

And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped.

14:42said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And
Jonathan was takenhen Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And
Jonathan tnd said, I did but taste a little honey with the
end of the rod that whand, and, lo, I must die.

14:44 And Saul answered, God do so and moror thou shalt
surely die, Jonathan.

14:45 And the people said unto SaJonathan die, who hath
wrought this great salvation in Israel? God for LORD
liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground;th wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan,
that he 
14:46 Then Saul went up from following the Philistines: and the
Philit to their own place.

14:47 So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, andainst all his
enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the chi
Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against
tines: and whithersoever he turned himself, he vexed them.

14:48 And d an host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered
Israel out of the hm that spoiled them.

14:49 Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Islchishua:
and the names of his two daughters were these; the name of tn Merab, and the name of the younger Michal: 14:50 And the
name of Sau was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name
of the captain of as Abner, the son of Ner, Saul’s uncle.

14:51 And Kish was the fath and Ner the father of Abner was
the son of Abiel.

14:52 And there wa against the Philistines all the days of
Saul: and when Saul saw any s or any valiant man, he took
him unto him.

15:1 Samuel also said untoLORD sent me to anoint thee to be
king over his people, over Israel: ne hearken thou unto the
voice of the words of the LORD.

15:2 Thus sai of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to
Israel, how he laid waiin the way, when he came up from
Egypt.

15:3 Now go and smite Amalek,y destroy all that they have,
and spare them not; but slay both man anfant and suckling,
ox and sheep, camel and ass.

15:4 And Saul gatherele together, and numbered them in
Telaim, two hundred thousand footmenthousand men of Judah.

15:5 And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and lathe valley.

15:6 And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get you mong the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye shewed
kindnhildren of Israel, when they came up out of
Egypt. So the Kenites depang the Amalekites.

15:7 And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah uncomest to
Shur, that is over against Egypt.

15:8 And he took Agag thehe Amalekites alive, and utterly
destroyed all the people with the edgord.

15:9 But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the she oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was
good, anduld not utterly destroy them: but every thing that was
vile and refuse destroyed utterly.

15:10 Then came the word of the LORD unto Samuel,:11 It
repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he is turnom following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it
grievend he cried unto the LORD all night.

15:12 And when Samuel rose earlyul in the morning, it was
told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, anhe set him up a
place, and is gone about, and passed on, and gone down
15:13 And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thoLORD: I have performed the commandment of the LORD.

15:14 And Samuel  meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in
mine ears, and the lowing n which I hear?  15:15 And Saul
said, They have brought them from the : for the people
spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacr the
LORD thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.

15:16 Thenid unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what the
LORD hath said to me. And he said unto him, Say on.

15:17 And Samuel said, When thou wast thine own sight, wast
thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel,RD anointed
thee king over Israel?  15:18 And the LORD sent thee on a nd
said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight
m until they be consumed.

15:19 Wherefore then didst thou not obey ththe LORD, but
didst fly upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of
15:20 And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the
ave gone the way which the LORD sent me, and have brought
Agag the kin and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.

15:21 But the people tookil, sheep and oxen, the chief of
the things which should have been uttyed, to sacrifice unto
the LORD thy God in Gilgal.

15:22 And Samuel s the LORD as great delight in burnt
offerings and sacrifices, as in oboice of the LORD? Behold,
to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heahe fat of rams.

15:23 For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and s is
as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of e hath also rejected thee from being king.

15:24 And Saul said unto Save sinned: for I have
transgressed the commandment of the LORD, and tecause I
feared the people, and obeyed their voice.

15:25 Now therefo thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with
me, that I may worship the L And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou
hastthe word of the LORD, and the LORD hath rejected thee
from being king l.

15:27 And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold upon thehis mantle, and it rent.

15:28 And Samuel said unto him, The LORD hatkingdom of
Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbourthat is better than thou.

15:29 And also the Strength of Israel will  repent: for he
is not a man, that he should repent.

15:30 Then he sasinned: yet honour me now, I pray thee,
before the elders of my peoplee Israel, and turn again with
me, that I may worship the LORD thy God. Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped the LORD.

15:32 amuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of the
Amalekites. And Agaghim delicately. And Agag said, Surely
the bitterness of death is past.Samuel said, As the sword hath made women childless, so
shall thy mothdless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in
pieces before the LORD in 5:34 Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to
Gibea

15:35 And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his deathess Samuel mourned for Saul: and the LORD repented that he
had made Sar Israel.

16:1 And the LORD said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mour,
seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thine hor and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I
have providg among his sons.

16:2 And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear itill me.
And the LORD said, Take an heifer with thee, and say, I am comfice to the LORD.

16:3 And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will shat thou
shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto t Samuel did that which the LORD spake, and came to Bethlehem.
And the s of the town trembled at his coming, and said, Comest
thou peaceably?d he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice
unto the LORD: sanctify y and come with me to the sacrifice.
And he sanctified Jesse and his soled them to the
sacrifice.

16:6 And it came to pass, when they were ce looked on
Eliab, and said, Surely the LORD’s anointed is before hit the LORD said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on
the he stature; because I have refused him: for the LORD
seeth not as man sen looketh on the outward appearance, but
the LORD looketh on the hearten Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And
he saidath the LORD chosen this.

16:9 Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. An Neither hath the
LORD chosen this.

16:10 Again, Jesse made seven of  pass before Samuel. And
Samuel said unto Jesse, The LORD hath not cho
16:11 And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he
s remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the
sheep. And Santo Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not
sit down till he come h12 And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of
a ountenance, and goodly to look to. And the LORD said,
Arise, anoint hi is he.

16:13 Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in tf his brethren: and the Spirit of the LORD came upon David from that
d So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.

16:14 But the Spirit of the LOd from Saul, and an evil
spirit from the LORD troubled him.

16:15 Andervants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit
from God troubleth t Let our lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to
seek, who is a cunning player on an harp: and it shall come
to pass, when irit from God is upon thee, that he shall
play with his hand, and thouwell.

16:17 And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man tha well, and bring him to me.

16:18 Then answered one of the servants, Behold, I have seen
a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, that is cunning iand a
mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, anperson, and the LORD is with him.

16:19 Wherefore Saul sent messengere, and said, Send me
David thy son, which is with the sheep.

16:20 Anok an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine,
and a kid, and sent id his son unto Saul.

16:21 And David came to Saul, and stood before e loved him
greatly; and he became his armourbearer.

16:22 And Saul se, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand
before me; for he hath found my sight.

16:23 And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God wa, that David took an harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was
refrewas well, and the evil spirit departed from him.

17:1 Now the Philistred together their armies to battle, and
were gathered together at Shoh belongeth to Judah, and
pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephes7:2 And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and
pitchedarray against the
Philistines.

17:3 And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and
Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley
between them.

17:4 And there went out a ch the camp of the Philistines,
named Goliath, of Gath, whose height wass and a span.

17:5 And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and h
with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand
shess.

17:6 And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of ben his shoulders.

17:7 And the staff of his spear was like a weaverd his
spear’s head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one beard went before him.

17:8 And he stood and cried unto the armies of Isrsaid unto
them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am nohilistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let
own to me.

17:9 If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then 
your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shallservants, and serve us.

17:10 And the Philistine said, I defy the armel this day;
give me a man, that we may fight together.

17:11 When SaIsrael heard those words of the Philistine,
they were dismayed, and gr7:12 Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah,
whosee was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among
men for an  the days of Saul.

17:13 And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and aul to the
battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the baliab the firstborn, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third
Shammah.David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.

17:15 Butt and returned from Saul to feed his father’s sheep
at Bethlehem.

1he Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented
himself for7:17 And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an
es parched corn, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp
of thy breth And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of
their thousand, and lhy brethren fare, and take their pledge.

17:19 Now Saul, and they, anmen of Israel, were in the
valley of Elah, fighting with the PhilistinAnd David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with
a keepk, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came
to the trench, as was going forth to the fight, and shouted
for the battle.

17:21 For  the Philistines had put the battle in array, army
against army.

17:2his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the
carriage, and ran into tnd came and saluted his brethren.

17:23 And as he talked with them, be came up the champion,
the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out os of the
Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David.

17:24 And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from he sore afraid.

17:25 And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this maome
up?  surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that thkilleth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and
will giveughter, and make his father’s house free in
Israel.

17:26 And Davidhe men that stood by him, saying, What shall
be done to the man that kis Philistine, and taketh away the
reproach from Israel? for who is thumcised Philistine, that
he should defy the armies of the living God?  the people
answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be donman
that killeth him.

17:28 And Eliab his eldest brother heard when hto the men;
and Eliab’s anger was kindled against David, and he saidst
thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in tss? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for
thou artn that thou mightest see the battle.

17:29 And David said, What have  Is there not a cause?
17:30 And he turned from him toward another, anfter the same
manner: and the people answered him again after the form

17:31 And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsere Saul: and he sent for him.

17:32 And David said to Saul, Let no mat fail because of him;
thy servant will go and fight with this Philist3 And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this
Philistght with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man
of war from his y4 And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father’s sheep,
andme a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:
17:35 And I wfter him, and smote him, and delivered it out of
his mouth: and when hagainst me, I caught him by his beard,
and smote him, and slew him.

1ervant slew both the lion and the bear: and this
uncircumcised Philistbe as one of them, seeing he hath
defied the armies of the living God.vid said moreover, The LORD that delivered me out of the paw
of the li of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of
the hand of this Phnd Saul said unto David, Go, and the
LORD be with thee.

17:38 And Sauvid with his armour, and he put an helmet of
brass upon his head; alsoim with a coat of mail.

17:39 And David girded his sword upon his arme assayed to
go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I
with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.

he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth
stones out of, and put them in a shepherd’s bag which he
had, even in a scrip; ang was in his hand: and he drew near
to the Philistine.

17:41 And the  came on and drew near unto David; and the man
that bare the shield wee him.

17:42 And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he
him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair
countenance.

17e Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest
to me with  And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.

17:44 And the PhilistinDavid, Come to me, and I will give
thy flesh unto the fowls of the airthe beasts of the field.

17:45 Then said David to the Philistine, Thoo me with a
sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to he
name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thfied.

17:46 This day will the LORD deliver thee into mine hand; and I thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the
carcases of  the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the
air, and to the wild bthe earth; that all the earth may know
that there is a God in Israel.
d all this assembly shall know that the LORD saveth not with
sword andr the battle is the LORD’s, and he will give you
into our hands.

17 came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came, and
drew nigh to mthat David hastened, and ran toward the army
to meet the Philistine.

avid put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and
slang it, ae Philistine in his forehead, that the stone
sunk into his forehead; apon his face to the earth.

17:50 So David prevailed over the Philistisling and with a
stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but thno sword
in the hand of David.

17:51 Therefore David ran, and stood uilistine, and took his
sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, aim, and cut
off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw theirwas dead, they fled.

17:52 And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, d, and
pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to of Ekron.

And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to ven unto Gath, and unto Ekron.

17:53 And the children of Israel returhasing after the
Philistines, and they spoiled their tents.

17:54 And the head of the Philistine, and brought it to
Jerusalem; but he put hin his tent.

17:55 And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philisaid
unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.

17:56 And the kinquire thou whose son the stripling is.

17:57 And as David returned fughter of the Philistine,
Abner took him, and brought him before Saul ad of the
Philistine in his hand.

17:58 And Saul said to him, Whose su, thou young man? And
David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jeshlehemite.

18:1 And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speakSaul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and
Jloved him as his own soul.

18:2 And Saul took him that day, and would no more home to
his father’s house.

18:3 Then Jonathan and David mnant, because he loved him as
his own soul.

18:4 And Jonathan strippef the robe that was upon him, and
gave it to David, and his garments, s sword, and to his bow,
and to his girdle.

18:5 And David went out wr Saul sent him, and behaved
himself wisely: and Saul set him over ther, and he was
accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in theSaul’s servants.

18:6 And it came to pass as they came, when David ed from
the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of alf Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with
jth instruments of musick.

18:7 And the women answered one another as , and said, Saul
hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he
said, Theyibed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have
ascribed but thousaat can he have more but the kingdom?
18:9 And Saul eyed David from thaforward.

18:10 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spiri
came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and Daviwith his hand, as at other times: and there was a javelin in
Saul’s 11 And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even
to with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.

18:12 And Saul f David, because the LORD was with him, and
was departed from Saul.

1 Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain
over a nd he went out and came in before the people.

18:14 And David behavedely in all his ways; and the LORD
was with him.

18:15 Wherefore when hat he behaved himself very wisely, he
was afraid of him.

18:16 But and Judah loved David, because he went out and
came in before them.

18l said to David, Behold my elder daughter Merab, her will
I give thee nly be thou valiant for me, and fight the LORD’s
battles.

For Saul not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the
Philistines be upon18 And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my
fathly in Israel, that I should be son in law to the king?
18:19 But it ca at the time when Merab Saul’s daughter
should have been given to Dahe was given unto Adriel the
Meholathite to wife.

18:20 And Michal Saghter loved David: and they told Saul, and
the thing pleased him.

18:l said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to
him, and that d of the Philistines may be against him.
Wherefore Saul said to David,t this day be my son in law in
the one of the twain.

18:22 And Saul c his servants, saying, Commune with David
secretly, and say, Behold, tth delight in thee, and all his
servants love thee: now therefore be ts son in law.

18:23 And Saul’s servants spake those words in the ead. And
David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king’s so
seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?  18:24 And the
serul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.

18:25 And Saul said, ye say to David, The king desireth not
any dowry, but an hundred forehe Philistines, to be avenged
of the king’s enemies. But Saul thoughavid fall by the hand
of the Philistines.

18:26 And when his servantsid these words, it pleased David
well to be the king’s son in law: as were not expired.

18:27 Wherefore David arose and went, he and his ew of the
Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskihey gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king’s
aw. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.

18:28 And Saul sawthat the LORD was with David, and that
Michal Saul’s daughter loved  And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became
David’s ontinually.

18:30 Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: andto
pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wiselyhe servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.

19:1 And Saul onathan his son, and to all his servants, that
they should kill David. Jonathan Saul’s son delighted much in David: and Jonathan
told Davi Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now
therefore, I pray thee, takehyself until the morning, and
abide in a secret place, and hide thyselnd I will go out and
stand beside my father in the field where thou arill commune
with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell t4 And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said
untonot the king sin against his servant, against David;
because he hath ngainst thee, and because his works have
been to thee-ward very good: 1 did put his life in his hand,
and slew the Philistine, and the LORD wreat salvation for
all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice: wherwilt
thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?  aul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As the
LORD shall not be slain.

19:7 And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewl those
things.

And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his, as in
times past.

19:8 And there was war again: and David went out,ht with the
Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and the
him.

19:9 And the evil spirit from the LORD was upon Saul, as he satse with his javelin in his hand: and David played with his hand.

19:1sought to smite David even to the wall with the
javelin: but he slippef Saul’s presence, and he smote the
javelin into the wall: and Davidescaped that night.

19:11 Saul also sent messengers unto David’s hoch him, and
to slay him in the morning: and Michal David’s wife toldying,
If thou save not thy life to night, to morrow thou shalt be slai So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and
fled, and
19:13 And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a
pils’ hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth.

19:14 And whet messengers to take David, she said, He is
sick.

19:15 And Saul sentngers again to see David, saying, Bring
him up to me in the bed, that  him.

19:16 And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was athe bed, with a pillow of goats’ hair for his bolster.

19:17 And Santo Michal, Why hast thou deceived me so, and
sent away mine enemy, thscaped? And Michal answered Saul, He
said unto me, Let me go; why shouthee?  19:18 So David fled,
and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, m all that Saul
had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in N19 And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in
Ramah.
 Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the
company of s prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed
over them, the Spirit upon the messengers of Saul, and they
also prophesied.

19:21 And whenld Saul, he sent other messengers, and they
prophesied likewise. And Sssengers again the third time,
and they prophesied also.

19:22 Then wo to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in
Sechu: and he asked anre are Samuel and David? And one
said, Behold, they be at Naioth in RaAnd he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God
was upon and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to
Naioth in Ramah.

19e stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before
Samuel in like d lay down naked all that day and all that
night. Wherefore they say, o among the prophets?  20:1 And
David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and cid before Jonathan,
What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what n before thy
father, that he seeketh my life?  20:2 And he said unto hrbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either
gre, but that he will shew it me: and why should my father
hide this thin it is not so.

20:3 And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father ceoweth
that I have found grace in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jon this, lest he be grieved: but truly as the LORD liveth, and as
thy sothere is but a step between me and death.

20:4 Then said Jonathan unthatsoever thy soul desireth, I
will even do it for thee.

20:5 And Davto Jonathan, Behold, to morrow is the new moon,
and I should not fail  the king at meat: but let me go,
that I may hide myself in the field hird day at even.

20:6 If thy father at all miss me, then say, David sked
leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city: for there is sacrifice there for all the family.

20:7 If he say thus, It is well;nt shall have peace: but if
he be very wroth, then be sure that evil ied by him.

20:8 Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; foovenant of the LORD with thee:
notwithstanding, if there be in me iniq thyself; for why
shouldest thou bring me to thy father?  20:9 And Jonathan said, Far be
it from thee: for if I knew certainly that evil wermined by my
father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?  
said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father
answoughly?  20:11 And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and
let us go out ield. And they went out both of them into the
field.

20:12 And Jonatha David, O LORD God of Israel, when I have
sounded my father about to mime, or the third day, and,
behold, if there be good toward David, andnd not unto thee,
and shew it thee; 20:13 The LORD do so and much morean: but
if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will shew it thd thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and the LORD be with
thee, been with my father.

20:14 And thou shalt not only while yet I live s kindness of
the LORD, that I die not: 20:15 But also thou shalt not ckindness from my house for ever: no, not when the LORD hath cut off
thof David every one from the face of the earth.

20:16 So Jonathan made with the house of David, saying, Let
the LORD even require it at the s enemies.

20:17 And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because heloved him:
for he loved him as he loved his own soul.

20:18 Then Jonato David, To morrow is the new moon: and thou
shalt be missed, becauseill be empty.

20:19 And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou sn
quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when th was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel.

20:20 And I will sharrows on the side thereof, as though I
shot at a mark.

20:21 And, bel send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows.
If I expressly say untoehold, the arrows are on this side
of thee, take them; then come thou:is peace to thee, and no
hurt; as the LORD liveth.

20:22 But if I say the young man, Behold, the arrows are
beyond thee; go thy way: for thsent thee away.

20:23 And as touching the matter which thou and I hav,
behold, the LORD be between thee and me for ever.

20:24 So David hin the field: and when the new moon was
come, the king sat him down to 
20:25 And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a
he wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul’s side,
and David was empty.

20:26 Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: fort,
Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clea27 And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of
the t David’s place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan
his son, Whereth not the son of Jesse to meat, neither
yesterday, nor to day?  20:2than answered Saul, David
earnestly asked leave of me to go to BethlehAnd he said, Let
me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice i; and
my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have thine eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my
brethren. Therefth not unto the king’s table.

20:30 Then Saul’s anger was kindledJonathan, and he said unto
him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious wo I know that
thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion,he
confusion of thy mother’s nakedness?  20:31 For as long as the soliveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy
kingdome now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely
die.

20:32 And nswered Saul his father, and said unto him,
Wherefore shall he be slaih he done?  20:33 And Saul cast a
javelin at him to smite him: wherebyknew that it was
determined of his father to slay David.

20:34 So Jone from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no
meat the second day onth: for he was grieved for David,
because his father had done him shaAnd it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into
the fi time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.

20:36 And he sis lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I
shoot. And as the lad ranan arrow beyond him.

20:37 And when the lad was come to the place of hich
Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is notbeyond thee?  20:38 And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make
speed, hastt. And Jonathan’s lad gathered up the arrows, and
came to his mastert the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the
matter. Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him,
Go, carrhe city.

20:41 And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a rd the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed
himself th and they kissed one another, and wept one with
another, until David e20:42 And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have
swf us in the name of the LORD, saying, The LORD be between
me and thee,n my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose
and departed: and Jonathto the city.

21:1 Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: andh was
afraid at the meeting of David, and said unto him, Why art thou d no man with thee?  21:2 And David said unto Ahimelech the priest,
Th commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no
man know any t business whereabout I send thee, and what I
have commanded thee: and ointed my servants to such and such
a place.

21:3 Now therefore what hine hand? give me five loaves of
bread in mine hand, or what there is21:4 And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common breadr mine hand, but there is hallowed bread; if the young men have
kept tat least from women.

21:5 And David answered the priest, and said unt truth
women have been kept from us about these three days, since I ca the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a
manner c though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.

21:6 So the priest hallowed bread: for there was no bread
there but the shewbread, that from before the LORD, to put
hot bread in the day when it was taken aw Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day,
detainee LORD; and his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the
chiefest of the herdmenged to Saul.

21:8 And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not her thine
hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor myith me, because the king’s business required haste.

21:9 And the pr The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom
thou slewest in the valley ehold, it is here wrapped in a
cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt taake it: for there is
no other save that here. And David said, There is that; give
it me.

21:10 And David arose and fled that day for fear owent to
Achish the king of Gath.

21:11 And the servants of Achish sai Is not this David the
king of the land? did they not sing one to anotin dances,
saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten th1:12 And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid
ohe king of Gath.

21:13 And he changed his behaviour before them, and mself
mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and ttle fall down upon his beard.

21:14 Then said Achish unto his servansee the man is mad:
wherefore then have ye brought him to me?  21:15 H of mad
men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad man in m? shall this fellow come into my house?  22:1 David therefore
departedand escaped to the cave Adullam: and when his
brethren and all his fats house heard it, they went down thither
to him.

22:2 And every onein distress, and every one that was in
debt, and every one that was did, gathered themselves unto
him; and he became a captain over them: anith him about
four hundred men.

22:3 And David went thence to Mizpeh nd he said unto the
king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray  forth,
and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.

22:4 Ant them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with
him all the while was in the hold.

22:5 And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not d;
depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, ato the forest of Hareth.

22:6 When Saul heard that David was discovere men that were
with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Rag his
spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him;en Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye
Benjill the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and
vineyards, and ml captains of thousands, and captains of
hundreds; 22:8 That all of yospired against me, and there is
none that sheweth me that my son hath ague with the son of
Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry forsheweth unto
me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to t,
as at this day?  22:9 Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was setservants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to
Nob, to Ahe son of Ahitub.

22:10 And he enquired of the LORD for him, and gaveals, and
gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.

22:11 Then the to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of
Ahitub, and all his fatherhe priests that were in Nob: and
they came all of them to the king.

2ul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered,
Here I am, my 13 And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou
and  Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword,
and hast enquifor him, that he should rise against me, to
lie in wait, as at this dahen Ahimelech answered the king,
and said, And who is so faithful amonservants as David,
which is the king’s son in law, and goeth at thy d is
honourable in thine house?  22:15 Did I then begin to enquire of ar from me: let not the king impute any thing unto his
servant, nor to of my father: for thy servant knew
nothing of all this, less or more.d the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and
all thy fouse.

22:17 And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, slay the priests of the LORD: because their hand also is with
David, athey knew when he fled, and did not shew it to me.
But the servants ofould not put forth their hand to fall
upon the priests of the LORD.

2e king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests.
And Doeg thurned, and he fell upon the priests, and slew on
that day fourscore anons that did wear a linen ephod.

22:19 And Nob, the city of the priese with the edge of the
sword, both men and women, children and sucklinn, and
asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.

22:20 And one off Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named
Abiathar, escaped, and fled after:21 And Abiathar shewed David that Saul had slain the LORD’s
priestsd David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when Doeg the
Edomite that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned
the death of all thef thy father’s house.

22:23 Abide thou with me, fear not: for he thmy life
seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safeguard.

23: told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight
against Keilah, andhe threshingfloors.

23:2 Therefore David enquired of the LORD, sayingI go and
smite these Philistines? And the LORD said unto David, Go, an Philistines, and save Keilah.

23:3 And David’s men said unto him, be afraid here in
Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah againes of
the Philistines?  23:4 Then David enquired of the LORD yet againLORD answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will
delivistines into thine hand.

23:5 So David and his men went to Keilah, anth the
Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them withlaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.

23:6 And it came en Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to
David to Keilah, that he camen ephod in his hand.

23:7 And it was told Saul that David was come tod Saul
said, God hath delivered him into mine hand; for he is shut in, into a town that hath gates and bars.

23:8 And Saul called all the pher to war, to go down to
Keilah, to besiege David and his men.

23:9 knew that Saul secretly practised mischief against him;
and he said toe priest, Bring hither the ephod.

23:10 Then said David, O LORD God ohy servant hath
certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, the
city for my sake.

23:11 Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into  will Saul
come down, as thy servant hath heard? O LORD God of Israel,thee, tell thy servant. And the LORD said, He will come down.

23:12 Tvid, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men
into the hand of SauLORD said, They will deliver thee up.

23:13 Then David and his men, wabout six hundred, arose and
departed out of Keilah, and went whitherscould go. And it
was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and to go
forth.

23:14 And David abode in the wilderness in strong holdsined
in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him everGod delivered him not into his hand.

23:15 And David saw that Saul wato seek his life: and David
was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.

onathan Saul’s son arose, and went to David into the wood,
and stren hand in God.

23:17 And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Sher
shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I sha unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.

23:18 And they two venant before the LORD: and David abode in
the wood, and Jonathan wentse.

23:19 Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth nde himself with us in strong holds in the wood, in the hill of
Hachila on the south of Jeshimon?  23:20 Now therefore, O
king, come down acco all the desire of thy soul to come down;
and our part shall be to dento the king’s hand.

23:21 And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the LORDve compassion
on me.

23:22 Go, I pray you, prepare yet, and know and lace where
his haunt is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told mdealeth very subtilly.

23:23 See therefore, and take knowledge of alling places
where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the cnd I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the
landill search him out throughout all the thousands of
Judah.

23:24 And tand went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his
men were in the wilderon, in the plain on the south of
Jeshimon.

23:25 Saul also and his meeek him. And they told David;
wherefore he came down into a rock, and he wilderness of
Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after Davilderness of Maon.

23:26 And Saul went on this side of the mountain, ad his
men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get aw of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round
aboutm.

23:27 But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, an the Philistines have invaded the land.

23:28 Wherefore Saul returneduing after David, and went
against the Philistines: therefore they callace
Selahammahlekoth.

23:29 And David went up from thence, and dwelt holds at
Engedi.

24:1 And it came to pass, when Saul was returned frng the
Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in ess of Engedi.

24:2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of a and
went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
e came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and
Saul went i his feet: and David and his men remained in the
sides of the cave.

2 men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which the
LORD said unthold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine
hand, that thou mayest do it shall seem good unto thee. Then
David arose, and cut off the skirt s robe privily.

24:5 And it came to pass afterward, that David’s hehim,
because he had cut off Saul’s skirt.

24:6 And he said unto hisORD forbid that I should do this
thing unto my master, the LORD’s an stretch forth mine hand
against him, seeing he is the anointed of the7 So David stayed his servants with these words, and suffered them
notgainst Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went
on his way.

2also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried
after Saul, y lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him,
David stooped with hthe earth, and bowed himself.

24:9 And David said to Saul, Wherefore ou men’s words,
saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?  24:10 Beholy thine
eyes have seen how that the LORD had delivered thee to day int in the cave: and some bade me kill thee: but mine eye spared
thee; anI will not put forth mine hand against my lord; for
he is the LORD’s
24:11 Moreover, my father, see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my
, and killed thee
not, know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in
mine hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my
soul to take it.

24:12 The LORD judge between me and thee, and the LORD avenge me of
thee: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.

24:13 As saith the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from
the wicked: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.

24:14 After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou
pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.

24:15 The LORD therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and
see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.

24:16 And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking
these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son
David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.

24:17 And haid to David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou
hast rewarded mereas I have rewarded thee evil.

24:18 And thou hast shewed this day hou hast dealt well with
me: forasmuch as when the LORD had delivered ine hand, thou
killedst me not.

24:19 For if a man find his enemy, wi him go well away?
wherefore the LORD reward thee good for that thou hnto me
this day.

24:20 And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt sking, and
that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hanSwear now therefore unto me by the LORD, that thou wilt not cut
off mynd that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my
father’s house.

24:nd David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his
men gaunto the hold.

25:1 And Samuel died; and all the Israelites were gathher,
and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And Davidd went down to the wilderness of Paran.

25:2 And there was a man in M possessions were in Carmel;
and the man was very great, and he had thnd sheep, and a
thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in CarmeNow the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife
Abigail: a a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful
countenance: but th churlish and evil in his doings; and he
was of the house of Caleb.

2vid heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep.

25:5 And out ten young men, and David said unto the young
men, Get you up to Cao to Nabal, and greet him in my name:
25:6 And thus shall ye say to hieth in prosperity, Peace be
both to thee, and peace be to thine house, be unto all that
thou hast.

25:7 And now I have heard that thou hasthy shepherds
which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ong
unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.

25:8 Ask thy young mey will shew thee. Wherefore let the
young men find favour in thine ey a good day: give,
I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto t, and to
thy son David.

25:9 And when David’s young men came, they Nabal according to
all those words in the name of David, and ceased.

Nabal answered David’s servants, and said, Who is David? and
who is  Jesse? there be many servants now a days that break
away every man frter.

25:11 Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh thakilled for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not
whence t 25:12 So David’s young men turned their way, and went
again, and caold him all those sayings.

25:13 And David said unto his men, Gird yeman his sword. And
they girded on every man his sword; and David also his
sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and tabode by the stuff.

25:14 But one of the young men told Abigail, Naba, saying,
Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salutr; and he railed on them.

25:15 But the men were very good unto us, a not hurt,
neither missed we any thing, as long as we were conversant 
when we were in the fields: 25:16 They were a wall unto us both by
niy, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.

25:17 Now thereand consider what thou wilt do; for evil is
determined against our masgainst all his household: for he
is such a son of Belial, that a man cak to him.

25:18 Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loavesbottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of
pa, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred
cakes of figs, am on asses.

25:19 And she said unto her servants, Go on before me; become
after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.

25:20 And it was e rode on the ass, that she came down by the
covert on the hill, and, vid and his men came down against
her; and she met them.

25:21 Now Daid, Surely in vain have I kept all that this
fellow hath in the wilderat nothing was missed of all that
pertained unto him: and he hath requl for good.

25:22 So and more also do God unto the enemies of David,  of
all that pertain to him by the morning light any that pisseth agail.

25:23 And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ll before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground,
25:24 Anhis feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let
this iniquity be: an handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine
audience, and hear the words ofmaid.

25:25 Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial,  for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is
with hiine handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom
thou didst send.

therefore, my lord, as the LORD liveth, and as thy soul
liveth, seeingath withholden thee from coming to shed
blood, and from avenging thysee own hand, now let thine
enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord,bal.

25:27 And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unrd, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my lord.

25:2thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid: for the
LORD will certai lord a sure house; because my lord
fighteth the battles of the LORD, ath not been found in thee
all thy days.

25:29 Yet a man is risen to e, and to seek thy soul: but the
soul of my lord shall be bound in thelife with the LORD thy
God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shallut, as out
of the middle of a sling.

25:30 And it shall come to pass,ORD shall have done to my
lord according to all the good that he hath cerning thee,
and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel; 25:31 Thall
be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my lord, either hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord hath avenged himself:
but wRD shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember
thine handmaid.

David said to Abigail, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel,
which sent tay to meet me: 25:33 And blessed be thy advice,
and blessed be thou, wkept me this day from coming to shed
blood, and from avenging myself wwn hand.

25:34 For in very deed, as the LORD God of Israel liveth, wh
kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to
urely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning
light any thatgainst the wall.

25:35 So David received of her hand that which she h him,
and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house; see, I have
hethy voice, and have accepted thy person.

25:36 And Abigail came to Nabehold, he held a feast in his
house, like the feast of a king; and Naart was merry within
him, for he was very drunken: wherefore she told , less or
more, until the morning light.

25:37 But it came to pass inng, when the wine was gone out
of Nabal, and his wife had told him the that his heart died
within him, and he became as a stone.

25:38 And  pass about ten days after, that the LORD smote
Nabal, that he died.

when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be
the LORD, theaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of
Nabal, and hath kept ht from evil: for the LORD hath returned
the wickedness of Nabal upon hd. And David sent and communed
with Abigail, to take her to him to wifnd when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel,
they spa, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to
him to wife.

25:41e arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and
said, Behold, be a servant to wash the feet of the
servants of my lord.

25:42 And asted, and arose and rode upon an ass, with five
damsels of hers that  her; and she went after the messengers
of David, and became his wife.vid also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were also both of
them his :44 But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David’s wife, to Phalti
 Laish, which was of Gallim.

26:1 And the Ziphites came unto Saul to ying, Doth not David
hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is beimon?  26:2
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, ee
thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the
wilderiph.

26:3 And Saul pitched in the hill of Hachilah, which is before
Jthe way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw
that Saul came nto the wilderness.

26:4 David therefore sent out spies, and understol was come
in very deed.

26:5 And David arose, and came to the place  had pitched:
and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the,
the captain of his host: and Saul lay in the trench, and the people
und about him.

26:6 Then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hitto
Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go doto Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with
thee.

26:7nd Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold,
Saul lay sleeping trench, and his spear stuck in the ground
at his bolster: but Abner ale lay round about him.

26:8 Then said Abishai to David, God hath dele enemy into
thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I prith
the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the
.

26:9 And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretcd against the LORD’s anointed, and be guiltless?  26:10
David said frmore, As the LORD liveth, the LORD shall smite him;
or his day shall e; or he shall descend into battle, and
perish.

26:11 The LORD forbidtretch forth mine hand against
the LORD’s anointed: but, I pray theeu now the spear that is
at his bolster, and the cruse of water, and le6:12 So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul’s
bolsey gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it,
neither awaked: for ll asleep; because a deep sleep from
the LORD was fallen upon them.

2 David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of
an hill af great space being between them: 26:14 And David
cried to the people, er the son of Ner, saying, Answerest
thou not, Abner? Then Abner answeid, Who art thou that
criest to the king?  26:15 And David said to Abn thou a
valiant man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore then not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in
to deking thy lord.

26:16 This thing is not good that thou hast done. As teth,
ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the Linted.

And now see where the king’s spear is, and the cruse of wateat his bolster.

26:17 And Saul knew David’s voice, and said, Is thie, my son
David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.

26:said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his
servant?  for what ne? or what evil is in mine hand?  26:19
Now therefore, I pray thee, l the king hear the words of his
servant. If the LORD have stirred theest me, let him accept
an offering: but if they be the children of men,e they before
the LORD; for they have driven me out this day from abidinheritance of the LORD, saying, Go, serve other gods.

26:20 Now ther not my blood fall to the earth before the
face of the LORD: for the kl is come out to seek a flea,
as when one doth hunt a partridge in the.

26:21 Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I wido thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this
day: beh played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.

26:22 And David answere Behold the king’s spear! and let
one of the young men come over and
26:23 The LORD render to every man his righteousness and his
faithfulthe LORD delivered thee into my hand to day, but I
would not stretch fand against the LORD’s anointed.

26:24 And, behold, as thy life wasy this day in mine eyes,
so let my life be much set by in the eyes of nd let him
deliver me out of all tribulation.

26:25 Then Saul said toessed be thou, my son David: thou
shalt both do great things, and alsol prevail. So David
went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.

vid said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the
hand of Saul:othing better for me than that I should
speedily escape into the land listines; and Saul shall
despair of me, to seek me any more in any coael: so shall I
escape out of his hand.

27:2 And David arose, and he p with the six hundred men that
were with him unto Achish, the son of Mf Gath.

27:3 And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, eve his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the
Jezreelitesgail the Carmelitess, Nabal’s wife.

27:4 And it was told Saul that fled to Gath: and he sought
no more again for him.

27:5 And David saih, If I have now found grace in thine
eyes, let them give me a place i in the country, that I may
dwell there: for why should thy servant dwroyal city with
thee?  27:6 Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: wherg
pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.

27:7 And the time dwelt in the country of the Philistines
was a full year and four montnd David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and
the Gezrthe Amalekites: for those nations were of old the
inhabitants of the lu goest to Shur, even unto the land of
Egypt.

27:9 And David smote th left neither man nor woman alive,
and took away the sheep, and the ox asses, and the camels,
and the apparel, and returned, and came to Ach And Achish said, Whither have ye made a road to day? And David
said, e south of Judah, and against the south of the
Jerahmeelites, and agaisouth of the Kenites.

27:11 And David saved neither man nor woman aliing tidings to
Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, So d and
so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country ofstines.

27:12 And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his peoutterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for
ever.

28:1me to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered
their armies tr warfare, to fight with Israel. And Achish
said unto David, Know thouy, that thou shalt go out with me
to battle, thou and thy men.

28:2 Aid to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant
can do. And Achi David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of
mine head for ever.

28:3 was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried
him in Ramah, eown city. And Saul had put away those that
had familiar spirits, and t out of the land.

28:4 And the Philistines gathered themselves togethe and
pitched in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and th in Gilboa.

28:5 And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he waand
his heart greatly trembled.

28:6 And when Saul enquired of the LOD answered him not,
neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.

aid Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a
familiar spiriy go to her, and enquire of her. And his
servants said to him, Behold,a woman that hath a familiar
spirit at Endor.

28:8 And Saul disguisedand put on other raiment, and he
went, and two men with him, and they e woman by night: and
he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the fami and bring
me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.

28:9 And the womanhim, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath
done, how he hath cut off thove familiar spirits, and the
wizards, out of the land: wherefore then  a snare for my
life, to cause me to die?  28:10 And Saul sware to herD,
saying, As the LORD liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thething.

28:11 Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? AnBring me up Samuel.

28:12 And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried wioice: and
the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me?  Saul.

28:13 And the king said unto her, Be not afraid: for what sawed the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.

28 said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old
man cometh upcovered with a mantle. And Saul perceived
that it was Samuel, and he s his face to the ground, and
bowed himself.

28:15 And Samuel said to  hast thou disquieted me, to bring
me up? And Saul answered, I am sore; for the Philistines
make war against me, and God is departed from me, nor by dreams: therefore I have called
thee, that thou mayest make knto me what I shall do.

28:16 Then said Samuel, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing the
LORD is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?  28:17 And the
LORD hath done to him, as he spake by me: foORD hath rent the
kingdom out of thine hand, and given it to thy neigh to
David: 28:18 Because thou obeyedst not the voice of the LORD, nor
his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath the LORD done
this thing this day.

28:19 Moreover the LORD will also deliver Israel with thee and of the Philistines: and to morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with
RD also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of
the Philisti Then Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore
afrai of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in
him; for he had bread all the day, nor all the night.

28:21 And the woman came unto Saw that he was sore troubled,
and said unto him, Behold, thine handmaiyed thy voice, and I
have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened uwords which
thou spakest unto me.

28:22 Now therefore, I pray thee, hou also unto the voice of
thine handmaid, and let me set a morsel of be thee; and eat,
that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on th:23 But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants,
togethe woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their
voice. So he aroseearth, and sat upon the bed.

28:24 And the woman had a fat calf in thhasted, and
killed it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unned
bread thereof: 28:25 And she brought it before Saul, and before hi; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that
night.

29:1hilistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek:
and the Israeled by a fountain which is in Jezreel.

29:2 And the lords of the Philied on by hundreds, and by
thousands: but David and his men passed on iard with
Achish.

29:3 Then said the princes of the Philistines, What e Hebrews
here?  And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, s David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been
with ays, or these years, and I have found no fault in him
since he fell un this day?  29:4 And the princes of the
Philistines were wroth with hi princes of the Philistines
said unto him, Make this fellow return, th may go again to his
place which thou hast appointed him, and let him n with us
to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary to us: for should he reconcile himself unto his master? should it not be with thehese men?  29:5 Is not this David, of whom they sang one to
another inaying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten
thousands?  29:6 Thelled David, and said unto him, Surely,
as the LORD liveth, thou hast bt, and thy going out and thy
coming in with me in the host is good in or I have not
found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me uy:
nevertheless the lords favour thee not.

29:7 Wherefore now return,e, that thou displease not
the lords of the Philistines.

29:8 And Dav Achish, But what have I done? and what hast
thou found in thy servant I have been with thee unto this
day, that I may not go fight against  of my lord the king?
29:9 And Achish answered and said to David, I knou art good
in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princilistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.

29:10 ow rise up early in the morning with thy master’s
servants that are thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the
morning, and have light, de:11 So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to
rehe land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up
to Jezreel.

3came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag
on the third the Amalekites had invaded the south, and
Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag,  fire; 30:2 And had
taken the women captives, that were therein: they ny, either
great or small, but carried them away, and went on their wa David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned
with fheir wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were
taken captives.
 David and the people that were with him lifted up their
voice and wepey had no more power to weep.

30:5 And David’s two wives were taken Ahinoam the
Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelited David was greatly distressed; for the people spake of stoning
him, b soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his
sons and for his: but David encouraged himself in the LORD
his God.

30:7 And David shar the priest, Ahimelech’s son, I pray
thee, bring me hither the epbiathar brought thither the
ephod to David.

30:8 And David enquired a, saying, Shall I pursue after this
troop? shall I overtake them? And d him, Pursue: for thou
shalt surely overtake them, and without fail r

30:9 So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, a the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.

30:10 Butsued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred
abode behind, which werthat they could not go over the
brook Besor.

30:11 And they found an  the field, and brought him to
David, and gave him bread, and he did eey made him drink
water; 30:12 And they gave him a piece of a cake of two
clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again r he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and
three nig3 And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art
thouaid, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite;
and my masterecause three days agone I fell sick.

30:14 We made an invasion upon t of the Cherethites, and upon
the coast which belongeth to Judah, and south of Caleb; and
we burned Ziklag with fire.

30:15 And David said  Canst thou bring me down to this company?
And he said, Swear unto me t thou wilt neither kill me, nor
deliver me into the hands of my mastell bring thee down to
this company.

30:16 And when he had brought himold, they were spread
abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, g, because
of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land listines, and out of the land of Judah.

30:17 And David smote them fright even unto the evening of
the next day: and there escaped not a ma save four hundred
young men, which rode upon camels, and fled.

30:18recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away:
and David rescued es.

30:19 And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor grer sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor any thing that they had
take David recovered all.

30:20 And David took all the flocks and the herhey drave
before those other cattle, and said, This is David’s spoilnd David came to the two hundred men, which were so faint that
they colow David, whom they had made also to abide at the
brook Besor: and thth to meet David, and to meet the people
that were with him: and when  near to the people, he saluted
them.

30:22 Then answered all the wic men of Belial, of those
that went with David, and said, Because they th us, we will
not give them ought of the spoil that we have recoveredevery
man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and30:23 Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that
whic hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the
company that st us into our hand.

30:24 For who will hearken unto you in this matthis part is
that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that t
the stuff: they shall part alike.

30:25 And it was so from that day at he made it a statute
and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.

30n David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the
elders of Judah,s friends, saying, Behold a present for you
of the spoil of the enemieORD; 30:27 To them which were in
Bethel, and to them which were in sou and to them which were
in Jattir, 30:28 And to them which were in Aro them which
were in Siphmoth, and to them which were in Eshtemoa, 30:2hem which were in Rachal, and to them which were in the cities of the
tes, and to them which were in the cities of the Kenites,
30:30 And toh were in Hormah, and to them which were in
Chorashan, and to them whi Athach, 30:31 And to them which
were in Hebron, and to all the placesd himself and his men
were wont to haunt.

31:1 Now the Philistines fot Israel: and the men of Israel
fled from before the Philistines, and slain in mount Gilboa.

31:2 And the Philistines followed hard upon San his sons;
and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melch’s sons.

31:3 And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archerand he was sore wounded of the archers.

31:4 Then said Saul unto his r, Draw thy sword, and thrust
me through therewith; lest these uncircu and thrust me
through, and abuse me. But his armourbearer would not;  sore
afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.

31:5 Andarmourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell
likewise upon his sword, ith him.

31:6 So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer,is men, that same day together.

31:7 And when the men of Israel that e other side of the
valley, and they that were on the other side Jordat the men
of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they fhe
cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.

31:8me to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to
strip the slain found Saul and his three sons fallen in
mount Gilboa.

31:9 And they  head, and stripped off his armour, and sent
into the land of the Philund about, to publish it in the
house of their idols, and among the pe10 And they put his armour in the house of Ashtaroth: and they
fastene to the wall of Bethshan.

31:11 And when the inhabitants of Jabeshgilf that which the
Philistines had done to Saul; 31:12 All the valiant mwent all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons
fhe wall of Bethshan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.

31:13 ook their bones, and buried them under a tree at
Jabesh, and fasted se



The Second Book of Samuel

Otherwise Called:

The Second Book of t1:1 Now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was
returne slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two
days in Ziklag;me even to pass on the third day, that,
behold, a man came out of the aul with his clothes rent,
and earth upon his head: and so it was, wheo David, that he
fell to the earth, and did obeisance.

1:3 And David him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto
him, Out of the camp ofI escaped.

1:4 And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray te.

And he answered, That the people are fled from the battle, and manople also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are
dead  And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou
tha Jonathan his son be dead?  1:6 And the young man that
told him said, ed by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul
leaned upon his spear; an chariots and horsemen followed
hard after him.

1:7 And when he lookem, he saw me, and called unto me. And
I answered, Here am I.

1:8 And to me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an
Amalekite.

1:9 He saagain, Stand, I pray thee, upon me, and slay me:
for anguish is come uause my life is yet whole in me.

1:10 So I stood upon him, and slew h I was sure that he
could not live after that he was fallen: and I toon that was
upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and ha
them hither unto my lord.

1:11 Then David took hold on his clothes, em; and likewise
all the men that were with him: 1:12 And they mourned and
fasted until even, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for th the LORD, and for the house of Israel; because they were
fallen by th1:13 And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou?wered, I am the son of a stranger, an Amalekite.

1:14 And David said ow wast thou not afraid to stretch
forth thine hand to destroy the LORnted?  1:15 And David
called one of the young men, and said, Go near, pon him. And
he smote him that he died.

1:16 And David said unto him, be upon thy head; for thy
mouth hath testified against thee, saying, n the LORD’s
anointed.

1:17 And David lamented with this lamentatiol and over
Jonathan his son: 1:18 (Also he bade them teach the childre
the use of the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jasher.)
1:1y of Israel is slain upon thy high places: how are the
mighty fallen! it not in Gath, publish it not in the
streets of Askelon; lest the dauthe Philistines rejoice,
lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumYe mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be
rain nor fields of offerings: for there the shield of the
mighty is vilely the shield of Saul, as though he had not
been anointed with oil.

1:2blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow
of Jonathan tuback, and the sword of Saul returned not empty.

1:23 Saul and Jonathaly and pleasant in their lives, and in
their death they were not dividre swifter than eagles, they
were stronger than lions.

1:24 Ye daughtel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in
scarlet, with other delights, wornaments of gold upon your
apparel.

1:25 How are the mighty fallen it of the battle! O Jonathan,
thou wast slain in thine high places.

1:distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: very pleasant hast
thou beenhy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of
women.

1:27 How are  fallen, and the weapons of war perished!  2:1
And it came to pass afthat David enquired of the LORD,
saying, Shall I go up into any of the udah? And the LORD
said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shallnd he
said, Unto Hebron.

2:2 So David went up thither, and his two wihinoam the
Jezreelitess, and Abigail Nabal’s wife the Carmelite.

2: men that were with him did David bring up, every man with
his househoy dwelt in the cities of Hebron.

2:4 And the men of Judah came, and tnointed David king over
the house of Judah. And they told David, sayinthe men of
Jabeshgilead were they that buried Saul.

2:5 And David senrs unto the men of Jabeshgilead, and said
unto them, Blessed be ye of that ye have shewed this
kindness unto your lord, even unto Saul, and  him.

2:6 And now the LORD shew kindness and truth unto you: and I also will
requite you this kindness, because ye have done this thing.

2:7 Therefore now let your hands be strengthened, and be ye valiant:
for your master Saul is dead, and also the house of Judah have
anointed  king over them.

2:8 But Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul’s hoshbosheth
the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim; 2:9 And mng over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over
Eph over Benjamin, and over all Israel.

2:10 Ishbosheth Saul’s son wass old when he began to reign
over Israel, and reigned two years. But t Judah followed
David.

2:11 And the time that David was king in Hebroe house of
Judah was seven years and six months.

2:12 And Abner the s and the servants of Ishbosheth the son
of Saul, went out from Mahanai.

2:13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, went ot together by the pool of Gibeon: and they sat down, the one on
the onhe pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.

2:14 And Abner oab, Let the young men now arise, and play
before us. And Joab said, Lse.

2:15 Then there arose and went over by number twelve of Benjamin,ained to Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the
servants of DavAnd they caught every one his fellow by the head, and thrust his
swordn his fellow’s side; so they fell down together: wherefore that
placed Helkathhazzurim, which is in Gibeon.

2:17 And there was a very sorhat day; and Abner was beaten,
and the men of Israel, before the servaid.

2:18 And there were three sons of Zeruiah there, Joab, and Abishaahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe.

2:19 And Asahel ter Abner; and in going he turned not to the
right hand nor to the lefowing Abner.

2:20 Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Art thou Ashe
answered, I am.

2:21 And Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to thyd or to
thy left, and lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take rmour.

But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him.

2:22 Aaid again to Asahel, Turn thee aside from following
me: wherefore shouthee to the ground? how then should I
hold up my face to Joab thy brotHowbeit he refused to turn
aside: wherefore Abner with the hinder end spear smote him
under the fifth rib, that the spear came out behind hidown there, and died in the same place: and it came to pass, that as
me to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still.

2:24 Joabshai pursued after Abner: and the sun went down
when they were come toof Ammah, that lieth before Giah by
the way of the wilderness of Gibeod the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after
Abner, ane troop, and stood on the top of an hill.

2:26 Then Abner called to  sword devour for
ever?  knowest thou not that it will be bitterness ie then, ere thou bid the people return from
following their brethren?  2:27 And Joab said, As God liveth, unless
thou hadst spoken, surely then in the morning the people had gone up
every one from following hisother.

2:28 So Joab blew a trumpet, and all the people stood still, ad after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.

2:29 And Abner n walked all that night through the plain,
and passed over Jordan, andgh all Bithron, and they came to
Mahanaim.

2:30 And Joab returned fro Abner: and when he had gathered
all the people together, there lackeds servants nineteen men
and Asahel.

2:31 But the servants of David h of Benjamin, and of Abner’s
men, so that three hundred and threesco.

2:32 And they took up Asahel, and buried him in the sepulchre of hiwhich was in Bethlehem. And Joab and his men went all night,
and they ron at break of day.

3:1 Now there was long war between the house of he house of
David: but David waxed stronger and stronger, and the houswaxed weaker and weaker.

3:2 And unto David were sons born in Hebron:n was
Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; 3:3 And his second, Chileab,Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the
soh the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; 3:4 And the
fourth, Adonijah  Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son
of Abital; 3:5 And the six, by Eglah David’s wife. These
were born to David in Hebron.

3:6 Anto pass, while there was war between the house of Saul
and the house oat Abner made himself strong for the house
of Saul.

3:7 And Saul had , whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of
Aiah: and Ishbosheth said to efore hast thou gone in unto
my father’s concubine?  3:8 Then was Aboth for the words of
Ishbosheth, and said, Am I a dog’s head, which ah do shew
kindness this day unto the house of Saul thy father, to his
and to his friends, and have not delivered thee into the hand of
Daviu chargest me to day with a fault concerning this
woman?  3:9 So do Go, and more also, except, as the LORD
hath sworn to David, even so I do:10 To translate the
kingdom from the house of Saul, and to set up the David over
Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beersheba.

3:11 A not answer Abner a word again, because he feared
him.

3:12 And Abneressengers to David on his behalf, saying, Whose
is the land? saying althy league with me, and, behold, my
hand shall be with thee, to bring Israel unto thee.

3:13 And he said, Well; I will make a league with te thing
I require of thee, that is, Thou shalt not see my face, except bring Michal Saul’s daughter, when thou comest to see my face.

3:1d sent messengers to Ishbosheth Saul’s son, saying,
Deliver me my wiI espoused to me for an hundred
foreskins of the Philistines.

3:15 Anth sent, and took her from her husband, even from
Phaltiel the son of 16 And her husband went with her along weeping behind her to
Bahurim.
 Abner unto him, Go, return. And he returned.

3:17 And Abner had commwith the elders of Israel, saying, Ye
sought for David in times past tng over you: 3:18 Now then do
it: for the LORD hath spoken of David, sthe hand of my
servant David I will save my people Israel out of the h
Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.

3:19 And Abneke in the ears of Benjamin: and Abner went also
to speak in the ears on Hebron all that seemed good to
Israel, and that seemed good to the w of Benjamin.

3:20 So Abner came to David to Hebron, and twenty men wnd
David made Abner and the men that were with him a feast.

3:21 And  unto David, I will arise and go, and will gather
all Israel unto my lng, that they may make a league with
thee, and that thou mayest reign hat thine heart desireth.
And David sent Abner away; and he went in pe And, behold, the servants of David and Joab came from pursuing a
troought in a great spoil with them: but Abner was not with
David in Hebrohad sent him away, and he was gone in peace.

3:23 When Joab and all that was with him were come, they told
Joab, saying, Abner the son of Nthe king, and he hath sent
him away, and he is gone in peace.

3:24 The to the king, and said, What hast thou done?
behold, Abner came unto is it that thou hast sent him away,
and he is quite gone?  3:25 Thou ker the son of Ner, that he
came to deceive thee, and to know thy goinghy coming in, and
to know all that thou doest.

3:26 And when Joab wasfrom David, he sent messengers after
Abner, which brought him again frl of Sirah: but David knew
it not.

3:27 And when Abner was returned tJoab took him aside in the
gate to speak with him quietly, and smote hunder the fifth
rib, that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother And afterward when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are
guilre the LORD for ever from the blood of Abner the son of
Ner: 3:29 Let  the head of Joab, and on all his father’s
house; and let there not the house of Joab one that hath an
issue, or that is a leper, or that  a staff, or that falleth
on the sword, or that lacketh bread.

3:30 Sd Abishai his brother slew Abner, because he had slain
their brother Abeon in the battle.

3:31 And David said to Joab, and to all the people with him,
Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and mourn Abner. And king David himself followed the bier.

3:32 And they buriedebron: and the king lifted up his
voice, and wept at the grave of Abne the people wept.

3:33 And the king lamented over Abner, and said, Dis a fool
dieth?  3:34 Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into s a man falleth before wicked men, so fellest thou. And all the
peoplein over him.

3:35 And when all the people came to cause David to eat  it
was yet day, David sware, saying, So do God to me, and more also,  bread, or ought else, till the sun be down.

3:36 And all the people  of it, and it pleased them: as
whatsoever the king did pleased all th

3:37 For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it wthe king to slay Abner the son of Ner.

3:38 And the king said unto hi, Know ye not that there is a
prince and a great man fallen this day i 3:39 And I am this
day weak, though anointed king; and these men the eruiah be
too hard for me: the LORD shall reward the doer of evil accos wickedness.

4:1 And when Saul’s son heard that Abner was dead in is hands
were feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled.

4:2 And Sn had two men that were captains of bands: the name
of the one was Baahe name of the other Rechab, the sons of
Rimmon a Beerothite, of the cBenjamin: (for Beeroth also
was reckoned to Benjamin.

4:3 And the Beeled to Gittaim, and were sojourners there
until this day.)  4:4 And JoSaul’s son, had a son that was
lame of his feet. He was five years oe tidings came of Saul
and Jonathan out of Jezreel, and his nurse tookd fled: and
it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell, lame. And his name was Mephibosheth.

4:5 And the sons of Rimmon the B, Rechab and Baanah, went,
and came about the heat of the day to the hhbosheth, who lay
on a bed at noon.

4:6 And they came thither into thof the house, as though they
would have fetched wheat; and they smote the fifth rib: and
Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped.

4:7 For whee into the house, he lay on his bed in his
bedchamber, and they smote lew him, and beheaded him, and
took his head, and gat them away througn all night.

4:8 And they brought the head of Ishbosheth unto David tand
said to the king, Behold the head of Ishbosheth the son of Saul th, which sought thy life; and the LORD hath avenged my lord the
king thSaul, and of his seed.

4:9 And David answered Rechab and Baanah his b sons of
Rimmon the Beerothite, and said unto them, As the LORD livethredeemed my soul out of all adversity, 4:10 When one told me,
saying, ul is dead, thinking to have brought good tidings, I
took hold of him, him in Ziklag, who thought that I would
have given him a reward for h 4:11 How much more, when
wicked men have slain a righteous person in use upon his
bed? shall I not therefore now require his blood of your take you away from the earth?  4:12 And David commanded his young men,slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged
them up ool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbosheth,
and buried it in hre of Abner in Hebron.

5:1 Then came all the tribes of Israel to Davbron, and
spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

5:2 Ae past, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that
leddest out and in Israel: and the LORD said to thee, Thou
shalt feed my people Israelshalt be a captain over Israel.

5:3 So all the elders of Israel came  to Hebron; and king
David made a league with them in Hebron before thd they
anointed David king over Israel.

5:4 David was thirty years olegan to reign, and he reigned
forty years.

5:5 In Hebron he reigned oseven years and six months: and in
Jerusalem he reigned thirty and threr all Israel and Judah.

5:6 And the king and his men went to Jerusale Jebusites, the
inhabitants of the land: which spake unto David, sayi thou
take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither:David cannot come in hither.

5:7 Nevertheless David took the strong h: the same is the
city of David.

5:8 And David said on that day, Whoseth up to the gutter,
and smiteth the Jebusites, and the lame and the e hated
of David’s soul, he shall be chief and captain. Wherefore thsaid,
The blind and the lame shall not come into the house.

5:9 So Dain the fort, and called it the city of David. And
David built round abMillo and inward.

5:10 And David went on, and grew great, and the LORhosts was
with him.

5:11 And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to Daedar trees,
and carpenters, and masons: and they built David an house.David perceived that the LORD had established him king over
Israel, anad exalted his kingdom for his people Israel’s
sake.

5:13 And Davidore concubines and wives out of Jerusalem,
after he was come from Hebrre were yet sons and daughters
born to David.

5:14 And these be the nse that were born unto him in
Jerusalem; Shammuah, and Shobab, and Natlomon, 5:15 Ibhar
also, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 5:16 And and
Eliada, and Eliphalet.

5:17 But when the Philistines heard that tanointed David king
over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek DDavid
heard of it, and went down to the hold.

5:18 The Philistines al spread themselves in the valley of
Rephaim.

5:19 And David enquired D, saying, Shall I go up to the
Philistines? wilt thou deliver them innd? And the LORD said
unto David, Go up: for I will doubtless deliver ines into
thine hand.

5:20 And David came to Baalperazim, and David shere, and
said, The LORD hath broken forth upon mine enemies before mebreach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place
Baalperaz And there they left their images, and David and his men burned
them.
the Philistines came up yet again, and spread themselves in
the valleym.

5:23 And when David enquired of the LORD, he said, Thou shalt not fetch a compass behind them, and come upon them over against
the mulbe

5:24 And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of a going in the toulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself: for then
shall the before thee, to smite the host of the
Philistines.

5:25 And David die LORD had commanded him; and smote the
Philistines from Geba until th Gazer.

6:1 Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Isra thousand.

6:2 And David arose, and went with all the people that werfrom Baale of Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose
nam by the name of the LORD of hosts that dwelleth between
the cherubims.they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of
the houadab that was in Gibeah: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons
of Abinadab, dracart.

6:4 And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab which was accompanying the ark of God: and Ahio went before the ark.

6:5 And Da all the house of Israel played before the LORD on
all manner of instre of fir wood, even on harps, and on
psalteries, and on timbrels, and , and on cymbals.

6:6 And when they came to Nachon’s threshingfloor forth his
hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen s6:7 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote for his error; and there he died by the ark of God.

6:8 And David waed, because the LORD had made a breach upon
Uzzah: and he called the nplace Perezuzzah to this day.

6:9 And David was afraid of the LORD th said, How shall the
ark of the LORD come to me?  6:10 So David would  the ark of
the LORD unto him into the city of David: but David carrie
into the house of Obededom the Gittite.

6:11 And the ark of the LORDin the house of Obededom the
Gittite three months: and the LORD blesse, and all his
household.

6:12 And it was told king David, saying, The blessed the
house of Obededom, and all that pertaineth unto him, beca
ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the housdom into the city of David with gladness.

6:13 And it was so, that what bare the ark of the LORD had
gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and.

6:14 And David danced before the LORD with all his might; and Davidd with a linen ephod.

6:15 So David and all the house of Israel brougrk of the
LORD with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.

6:16 ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal
Saul’s daughterough a window, and saw king David leaping
and dancing before the LORD;he despised him in her heart.

6:17 And they brought in the ark of the set it in his place,
in the midst of the tabernacle that David had piit: and
David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the L And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings
and rings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of
hosts.

6:19 At among all the people, even among the whole multitude
of Israel, as we women as men, to every one a cake of bread,
and a good piece of flesflagon of wine. So all the people
departed every one to his house.

6:vid returned to bless his household. And Michal the
daughter of Saul co meet David, and said, How glorious was
the king of Israel to day, wh himself to day in the eyes of
the handmaids of his servants, as one ofellows shamelessly
uncovereth himself!  6:21 And David said unto Michs before
the LORD, which chose me before thy father, and before all hi
to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel:
therefolay before the LORD.

6:22 And I will yet be more vile than thus, and n mine
own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, ohonour.

6:23 Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto hen the king sat in his house, and the LORD
had given him rest round a the king
said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house out the ark of God dwelleth within curtains.

7:3 And Nathan said to th, do all that is in thine heart;
for the LORD is with thee.

7:4 And iass that night, that the word of the LORD came
unto Nathan, saying, 7:ell my servant David, Thus saith the
LORD, Shalt thou build me an houso dwell in?  7:6 Whereas I
have not dwelt in any house since the time ught up the
children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but havn
a tent and in a tabernacle.

7:7 In all the places wherein I have wa all the children of
Israel spake I a word with any of the tribes of I I
commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me an
edar?  7:8 Now therefore so shalt thou say unto my servant
David, Thus LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote,
from following the she ruler over my people, over Israel: 7:9
And I was with thee whithersoentest, and have cut off all
thine enemies out of thy sight, and have mgreat name, like
unto the name of the great men that are in the earth.eover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will
plant themey may dwell in a place of their own, and move no
more; neither shall n of wickedness afflict them any more,
as beforetime, 7:11 And as sinc that I commanded judges to
be over my people Israel, and have caused st from all thine
enemies. Also the LORD telleth thee that he will makhouse.

7:12 And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep withrs, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of
thy d I will establish his kingdom.

7:13 He shall build an house for my nsh the
throne of his kingdom for ever.

7:14 I will be his father, andwill chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes
of the children of men: 7:15 But my mercy shall not depart away from
him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.

7:16 And thine house anthy kingdom shall be established for ever
before thee: thy throne shalablished for ever.

7:17 According to all these words, and according ts vision,
so did Nathan speak unto David.

7:18 Then went king David ibefore the LORD, and he said,
Who am I, O Lord GOD? and what is my houhou hast brought me
hitherto?  7:19 And this was yet a small thing in  O Lord
GOD; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant’s house for a e to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD?  7:20 And
what cy more unto thee? for thou, Lord GOD, knowest thy
servant.

7:21 For ts sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou
done all these gre to make thy servant know them.

7:22 Wherefore thou art great, O LORDthere is none like
thee, neither is there any God beside thee, accordill that we
have heard with our ears.

7:23 And what one nation in the ike thy people, even like
Israel, whom God went to redeem for a peopleto make
him a name, and to do for you great things and terrible, for ty land,
before thy people, which thou redeemedst to thee from Egypt, ftions and their gods?  7:24 For thou hast confirmed to thyself thy
peo to be a people unto thee for ever: and thou, LORD, art
become their GAnd now, O LORD God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning
thy serconcerning his house, establish it for ever, and do
as thou hast said.d let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, The LORD of hosts
is thesrael: and let the house of thy servant David be
established before thFor thou, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy
servantI will build thee an house: therefore hath thy
servant found in his heay this prayer unto thee.

7:28 And now, O Lord GOD, thou art that Godwords be true,
and thou hast promised this goodness unto thy servant: fore
now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that itue for ever before thee: for thou, O Lord GOD, hast spoken it:
and witsing let the house of thy servant be blessed for
ever.

8:1 And after e to pass that David smote the Philistines,
and subdued them: and Davihegammah out of the hand of the
Philistines.

8:2 And he smote Moab, ad them with a line, casting them
down to the ground; even with two lined he to put to death,
and with one full line to keep alive. And so ths became
David’s servants, and brought gifts.

8:3 David smote also  the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he
went to recover his border at uphrates.

8:4 And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven  and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all the
chariot horsesserved of them for an hundred chariots.

8:5 And when the Syrians of De to succour Hadadezer king of
Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two anousand men.

8:6 Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus: and thecame servants to David, and brought gifts. And the LORD preserved
Davoever he went.

8:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on thof
Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

8:8 And from Betah, and ai, cities of Hadadezer, king David
took exceeding much brass.

8:9 Wh of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host
of Hadadezer, 8:1 sent Joram his son unto king David, to
salute him, and to bless him, had fought against Hadadezer,
and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars And Joram brought
with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and brass:
8:11 Which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD, with thnd gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued; 8:12
Ofd of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the
Philistines, and oand of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of
Rehob, king of Zobah.

8:13 And him a name when he returned from smiting of the
Syrians in the valley eing eighteen thousand men.

8:14 And he put garrisons in Edom; througdom put he
garrisons, and all they of Edom became David’s servants. RD
preserved David whithersoever he went.

8:15 And David reigned over; and David executed judgment
and justice unto all his people.

8:16 Ae son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat
the son of Ahilud er; 8:17 And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and
Ahimelech the son of Abiathae priests; and Seraiah was the
scribe; 8:18 And Benaiah the son of Jehover both the
Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were s.

9:1 And David said, Is there yet any that is left of the house of
 I may shew him kindness for Jonathan’s sake?  9:2 And there
was of  of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba. And when they
had called him u the king said unto him, Art thou Ziba?  And
he said, Thy servant is h the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that
I may indness of God unto him? And Ziba said unto the king,
Jonathan hath yehich is lame on his feet.

9:4 And the king said unto him, Where is hesaid unto the
king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Aodebar.

9:5 Then king David sent, and fetched him out of the house ofe son of Ammiel, from Lodebar.

9:6 Now when Mephibosheth, the son of  the son of Saul, was
come unto David, he fell on his face, and did red David
said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold thy servant!  9:7 d unto him, Fear not: for I will surely shew thee kindness
for Jonathaather’s sake, and will restore thee all the land of
Saul thy father;shalt eat bread at my table continually.

9:8 And he bowed himself, ant is thy servant, that thou
shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I an the king called
to Ziba, Saul’s servant, and said unto him, I have thy
master’s son all that pertained to Saul and to all his house.

herefore, and thy sons, and thy servants, shall till the
land for him,shalt bring in the fruits, that thy master’s
son may have food to eabosheth thy master’s son shall eat
bread alway at my table. Now Zibaen sons and twenty
servants.

9:11 Then said Ziba unto the king, Accorl that my lord the
king hath commanded his servant, so shall thy serva for
Mephibosheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table, as one of s sons.

9:12 And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micha.at dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto Mephibosheth.

9:13 Seth dwelt in Jerusalem: for he did eat continually at
the king’s tabas lame on both his feet.

10:1 And it came to pass after this, that tthe children of
Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead.

1d David, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of
Nahash, as his fatkindness unto me. And David sent to
comfort him by the hand of his serhis father. And David’s
servants came into the land of the children 0:3 And the princes of the children of Ammon said unto Hanun their
lor thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath
sent comforters ? hath not David rather sent his servants
unto thee, to search the citspy it out, and to overthrow it?
10:4 Wherefore Hanun took David’s snd shaved off the one
half of their beards, and cut off their garmentsddle, even
to their buttocks, and sent them away.

10:5 When they toldvid, he sent to meet them, because the
men were greatly ashamed: and td, Tarry at Jericho until
your beards be grown, and then return.

10:6the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David,
the children o and hired the Syrians of Bethrehob and the
Syrians of Zoba, twenty thtmen, and of king Maacah a
thousand men, and of Ishtob twelve thousand7 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the
mi

10:8 And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array
at the entering in of the gate: and the Syrians of Zoba, and of Rehob,
and Ishtob, and Maacah, were by themselves in the field.

10:9 When Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before
and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in
array against the Syrians: 10:10 And the rest of the people he
delivered into the hand of Abishai his brother, that he might put them
in array against the children of Ammon.

10:11 And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou
shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I will come and help thee.

10:12 Be of good ourage, and let us play the men for our people, and
for the cities of d the LORD do that which seemeth him
good.

10:13 And Joab drew nigh, ople that were with him, unto the
battle against the Syrians: and theyre him.

10:14 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians weren fled they also before Abishai, and entered into the city. So Joab
rm the children of Ammon, and came to Jerusalem.

10:15 And when the Syhat they were smitten before Israel,
they gathered themselves togetherAnd Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians that were beyond
the rhey came to Helam; and Shobach the captain of the host
of Hadarezer wethem.

10:17 And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel togethssed over Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves
innst David, and fought with him.

10:18 And the Syrians fled before Isrvid slew the men of
seven hundred chariots of the Syrians, and forty temen,
and smote Shobach the captain of their host, who died there.

10en all the kings that were servants to Hadarezer saw that
they were smre Israel, they made peace with Israel, and
served them. So the Syrian the children of Ammon any
more.

11:1 And it came to pass, after the ar was expired, at the time when
kings go forth to battle, that David and his servants with
him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the chilmmon, and
besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem.

11:2e to pass in an eveningtide, that David arose from off
his bed, and wahe roof of the king’s house: and from the
roof he saw a woman washinand the woman was very beautiful
to look upon.

11:3 And David sent anafter the woman. And one said, Is not
this Bathsheba, the daughter of e wife of Uriah the Hittite?
11:4 And David sent messengers, and took he came in unto
him, and he lay with her; for she was purified from hess:
and she returned unto her house.

11:5 And the woman conceived, an told David, and said, I am
with child.

11:6 And David sent to Joab, nd me Uriah the Hittite. And
Joab sent Uriah to David.

11:7 And when ome unto him, David demanded of him how Joab
did, and how the people d the war prospered.

11:8 And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy hous thy feet.
And Uriah departed out of the king’s house, and there fola
mess of meat from the king.

11:9 But Uriah slept at the door of theouse with all the
servants of his lord, and went not down to his housed when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down unto
his housed unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey?
why then didst thou nounto thine house?  11:11 And Uriah
said unto David, The ark, and Israeh, abide in tents; and
my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are  the open
fields; shall I then go into mine house, to eat and to drinke with my wife? as thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not
do .

11:12 And David said to Uriah, Tarry here to day also, and to morrolet thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day, and the
morrow. when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him;
and he mank: and at even he went out to lie on his bed with
the servants of his went not down to his house.

11:14 And it came to pass in the morningid wrote a letter to
Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.

11:15 Anin the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the
forefront of the hottest baretire ye from him, that he may
be smitten, and die.

11:16 And it cam when Joab observed the city, that he
assigned Uriah unto a place wher that valiant men were.

11:17 And the men of the city went out, and fJoab: and
there fell some of the people of the servants of David; and e
Hittite died also.

11:18 Then Joab sent and told David all the thining the war;
11:19 And charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast md of
telling the matters of the war unto the king, 11:20 And if so be ng’s wrath arise, and he say unto thee, Wherefore approached ye
so nhe city when ye did fight? knew ye not that they would
shoot from the 1 Who smote Abimelech the son of
Jerubbesheth? did not a woman cast a  millstone upon him
from the wall, that he died in Thebez? why went yee wall? then
say thou, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.

11messenger went, and came and shewed David all that Joab
had sent him f3 And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed
against ame out unto us into the field, and we were upon them
even unto the enthe gate.

11:24 And the shooters shot from off the wall upon thy servome of the king’s servants be dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittitlso.

11:25 Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unt not this thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one
as well a: make thy battle more strong against the city, and
overthrow it: and hou him.

11:26 And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husban, she mourned for her husband.

11:27 And when the mourning was past, and fetched her to
his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a he thing
that David had done displeased the LORD.

12:1 And the LORD snto David. And he came unto him, and
said unto him, There were two meny; the one rich, and the
other poor.

12:2 The rich man had exceeding  and herds: 12:3 But the
poor man had nothing, save one little ewe lame had bought
and nourished up: and it grew up together with him, and ws
children; it did eat of his own meat, and drank of his own cup, and
s bosom, and was unto him as a daughter.

12:4 And there came a travelhe rich man, and he spared to
take of his own flock and of his own her for the wayfaring
man that was come unto him; but took the poor mannd dressed
it for the man that was come to him.

12:5 And David’s anatly kindled against the man; and he
said to Nathan, As the LORD livet that hath done this thing
shall surely die: 12:6 And he shall restore fourfold, because
he did this thing, and because he had no pity.

12:an said to David, Thou art the man. Thus saith the LORD
God of Israel,d thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee
out of the hand of Saul;I gave thee thy master’s house, and
thy master’s wives into thy boave thee the house of Israel
and of Judah; and if that had been too liuld moreover have
given unto thee such and such things.

12:9 Whereforu despised the commandment of the LORD, to do
evil in his sight? thou d Uriah the Hittite with the sword,
and hast taken his wife to be thy hast slain him with the
sword of the children of Ammon.

12:10 Now thee sword shall never depart from thine house;
because thou hast despisend hast taken the wife of Uriah the
Hittite to be thy wife.

12:11 Thue LORD, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee
out of thine own houwill take thy wives before thine eyes,
and give them unto thy neighbou shall lie with thy wives in
the sight of this sun.

12:12 For thou diretly: but I will do this thing before all
Israel, and before the sun.d David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the LORD. And
Nathan sDavid, The LORD also hath put away thy sin; thou
shalt not die.

12:14 because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to
the enemies ofto blaspheme, the child also that is born unto
thee shall surely die.
 Nathan departed unto his house. And the LORD struck the
child that Urwife bare unto David, and it was very sick.

12:16 David therefore besfor the child; and David fasted,
and went in, and lay all night upon t
12:17 And the elders of his house arose, and went to him, to raise hihe earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with
them.

12:18me to pass on the seventh day, that the child died. And
the servants oared to tell him that the child was dead: for
they said, Behold, while was yet alive, we spake unto him,
and he would not hearken unto our vwill he then vex himself,
if we tell him that the child is dead?  12:1en David saw that
his servants whispered, David perceived that the chi:
therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they
s dead.

12:20 Then David arose from the earth, and washed, and anointnto the house of the LORD,
and worshipped: then he came to his own hou he required,
they set bread before him, and he did eat.

12:21 Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou
hast done? thou didst fast and weep for the child, while it was alive;
but when the ad, thou didst rise and eat bread.

12:22 And he said, While the childlive, I fasted and wept:
for I said, Who can tell whether GOD will be o me, that the
child may live?  12:23 But now he is dead, wherefore sht?
can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not ret

12:24 And David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and went in unto her,
th her: and she bare a son, and he called his name Solomon:
and the LOim.

12:25 And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet; and he calleJedidiah, because of the LORD.

12:26 And Joab fought against Rabbah oren of Ammon, and
took the royal city.

12:27 And Joab sent messengersand said, I have fought
against Rabbah, and have taken the city of wat:28 Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and encamp
a city, and take it: lest I take the city, and it be called
after my na And David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah,
and fnst it, and took it.

12:30 And he took their king’s crown from off he weight
whereof was a talent of gold with the precious stones: and in David’s head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city in great
1 And he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them
undesaws, and under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and
made themugh the brick-kiln: and thus did he unto all the
cities of the childre. So David and all the people returned
unto Jerusalem.

13:1 And it ca after this, that Absalom the son of David had
a fair sister, whose naar; and Amnon the son of David loved
her.

13:2 And Amnon was so vexedfell sick for his sister Tamar;
for she was a virgin; and Amnon thoughfor him to do anything
to her.

13:3 But Amnon had a friend, whose namdab, the son of
Shimeah David’s brother: and Jonadab was a very subt3:4 And he said unto him, Why art thou, being the king’s son, lean
f day? wilt thou not tell me? And Amnon said unto him, I
love Tamar, myr Absalom’s sister.

13:5 And Jonadab said unto him, Lay thee down o make
thyself sick: and when thy father cometh to see thee, say unto h, let my sister Tamar come, and give me meat, and dress the
meat in myat I may see it, and eat it at her hand.

13:6 So Amnon lay down, and f sick: and when the king was
come to see him, Amnon said unto the kinthee, let Tamar my
sister come, and make me a couple of cakes in my siI may eat
at her hand.

13:7 Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Goy brother
Amnon’s house, and dress him meat.

13:8 So Tamar went to  Amnon’s house; and he was laid down.
And she took flour, and kneadend made cakes in his sight, and
did bake the cakes.

13:9 And she tookd poured them out before him; but he
refused to eat. And Amnon said, Hfrom me. And they
went out every man from him.

13:10 And Amnon said uBring the meat into the chamber, that
I may eat of thine hand. And Tam cakes which she had made,
and brought them into the chamber to Amnon r.

13:11 And when she had brought them unto him to eat, he took hold  said unto her, Come lie with me, my sister.

13:12 And she answered hy brother, do not force me; for no
such thing ought to be done in Isra thou this folly.

13:13 And I, whither shall I cause my shame to go?  thee,
thou shalt be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pspeak unto the king; for he will not withhold me from thee.

13:14 Howuld not hearken unto her voice: but, being stronger
than she, forced hy with her.

13:15 Then Amnon hated her exceedingly; so that the hatreh
he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. Asaid unto her, Arise, be gone.

13:16 And she said unto him, There is this evil in sending
me away is greater than the other that thou didstBut he
would not hearken unto her.

13:17 Then he called his servant tred unto him, and said,
Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the dher.

13:18 And she had a garment of divers colours upon her: for withes were the king’s daughters that were virgins apparelled. Then his
ought her out, and bolted the door after her.

13:19 And Tamar put ashead, and rent her garment of divers
colours that was on her, and laid n her head, and went on
crying.

13:20 And Absalom her brother said unth Amnon thy brother
been with thee? but hold now thy peace, my sistery brother;
regard not this thing. So Tamar remained desolate in her brlom’s house.

13:21 But when king David heard of all these things, hroth.

13:22 And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon neither good norAbsalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.

13:23 Anto pass after two full years, that Absalom had
sheepshearers in Baalhais beside Ephraim: and Absalom
invited all the king’s sons.

13:24 A came to the king, and said, Behold now, thy servant
hath sheepshearerking, I beseech thee, and his servants go
with thy servant.

13:25 Andsaid to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all now
go, lest we be chargehee. And he pressed him: howbeit he
would not go, but blessed him.

13id Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go
with us. And aid unto him, Why should he go with thee?
13:27 But Absalom pressed hilet Amnon and all the king’s
sons go with him.

13:28 Now Absalom had his servants, saying, Mark ye now when
Amnon’s heart is merry with when I say unto you, Smite
Amnon; then kill him, fear not: have not Iu? be
courageous, and be valiant.

13:29 And the servants of Absalom do Amnon as Absalom had
commanded.

Then all the king’s sons arose, aan gat him up upon his
mule, and fled.

13:30 And it came to pass, whire in the way, that tidings
came to David, saying, Absalom hath slain ng’s sons, and
there is not one of them left.

13:31 Then the king ad tare his garments, and lay on the
earth; and all his servants stood eir clothes rent.

13:32 And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David’s browered and
said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the yhe king’s sons; for Amnon only is dead: for by the appointment of
Ab hath been determined from the day that he forced his
sister Tamar.

1herefore let not my lord the king take the thing to his
heart, to thinthe king’s sons are dead: for Amnon only is
dead.

13:34 But Absalomd the young man that kept the watch lifted
up his eyes, and looked, an there came much people by the
way of the hill side behind him.

13:35b said unto the king, Behold, the king’s sons come: as
thy servant sis.

13:36 And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of speakbehold, the king’s sons came, and lifted up their voice and
wept: an also and all his servants wept very sore.

13:37 But Absalom fled, anTalmai, the son of Ammihud, king
of Geshur. And David mourned for his ay.

13:38 So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three ye And the soul of king David longed to go forth unto Absalom: for
he wad concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.

14:1 Now Joab the son of Zeruved that the king’s heart was
toward Absalom.

14:2 And Joab sent tod fetched thence a wise woman, and
said unto her, I pray thee, feign te a mourner, and put on
now mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself wt be as a
woman that had a long time mourned for the dead: 14:3 And coking, and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her
:4 And when the woman of Tekoah spake to the king, she fell on her
facound, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king.

14:5 And the king sa, What aileth thee? And she answered, I
am indeed a widow woman, and md is dead.

14:6 And thy handmaid had two sons, and they two strove tothe field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the
othe him.

14:7 And, behold, the whole family is risen against thine handmey said, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill
him, forof his brother whom he slew; and we will destroy the
heir also: and sol quench my coal which is left, and shall
not leave to my husband neit remainder upon the earth.

14:8 And the king said unto the woman, Go use, and I will
give charge concerning thee.

14:9 And the woman of Ted unto the king, My lord, O king, the
iniquity be on me, and on my fatuse: and the king and his
throne be guiltless.

14:10 And the king saiaith ought unto thee, bring him to
me, and he shall not touch thee any11 Then said she, I pray thee, let the king remember the LORD thy
God, wouldest not suffer the revengers of blood to destroy
any more, lest roy my son. And he said, As the LORD liveth,
there shall not one hair fall to the earth.

14:12 Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pspeak one
word unto my lord the king. And he said, Say on.

14:13 And aid, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a
thing against the people  the king doth speak this thing as
one which is faulty, in that the kit fetch home again his
banished.

14:14 For we must needs die, and arespilt on the ground,
which cannot be gathered up again; neither doth Gany
person: yet doth he devise means, that his banished be not expelle.

14:15 Now therefore that I am come to speak of this thing unto my lng, it is because the people have made me afraid: and thy
handmaid saiow speak unto the king; it may be that the king
will perform the requeandmaid.

14:16 For the king will hear, to deliver his handmaid out of
of the man that would destroy me and my son together out of the
inher God.

14:17 Then thine handmaid said, The word of my lord the king sh comfortable: for as an angel of God, so is my lord the king to
discer therefore the LORD thy God will be with thee.

14:18 Then the king anred and said unto the woman, Hide not from
me, I pray thee, the thing all ask thee. And the woman said,
Let my lord the king now speak.

14: king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all
this?  And the wored and said, As thy soul liveth, my lord
the king, none can turn to thand or to the left from ought
that my lord the king hath spoken: for nt Joab, he bade me,
and he put all these words in the mouth of thine  14:20 To
fetch about this form of speech hath thy servant Joab done t
and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to
kngs that are in the earth.

14:21 And the king said unto Joab, Behold e done this thing:
go therefore, bring the young man Absalom again.

1oab fell to the ground on his face, and bowed himself, and
thanked the Joab said, To day thy servant knoweth that I
have found grace in thy lord, O king, in that the king hath
fulfilled the request of his serva So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to
Jerusalem.

the king said, Let him turn to his own house, and let him
not see my falom returned to his own house, and saw not the
king’s face.

14:25 Israel there was none to be so much praised as
Absalom for his beauty:sole of his foot even to the crown of
his head there was no blemish in26 And when he polled his head, (for it was at every year’s end
thatt: because the hair was heavy on him, therefore he
polled it:) he weig of his head at two hundred shekels
after the king’s weight.

14:27 bsalom there were born three sons, and one daughter,
whose name was Taas a woman of a fair countenance.

14:28 So Absalom dwelt two full yeaalem, and saw not the
king’s face.

14:29 Therefore Absalom sent forve sent him to the king;
but he would not come to him: and when he sen second time,
he would not come.

14:30 Therefore he said unto his ser Joab’s field is near
mine, and he hath barley there; go and set it d Absalom’s
servants set the field on fire.

14:31 Then Joab arose,  Absalom unto his house, and said
unto him, Wherefore have thy servanteld on fire?  14:32 And
Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto the, Come hither,
that I may send thee to the king, to say, Wherefore am m
Geshur? it had been good for me to have been there still: now
therefsee the king’s face; and if there be any iniquity in
me, let him kil3 So Joab came to the king, and told him: and when he had called
for A came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the
ground before and the king kissed Absalom.

15:1 And it came to pass after this, tharepared him
chariots and horses, and fifty men to run before him.

15:om rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate:
and it was so,any man that had a controversy came to the
king for judgment, then Absd unto him, and said, Of what
city art thou? And he said, Thy servant of the tribes of
Israel.

15:3 And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matod and right;
but there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee.

1m said moreover, Oh that I were made judge in the land,
that every man any suit or cause might come unto me, and I
would do him justice!  15as so, that when any man came nigh
to him to do him obeisance, he put and, and took him, and
kissed him.

15:6 And on this manner did Absalorael that came to the
king for judgment: so Absalom stole the hearts o of Israel.

15:7 And it came to pass after forty years, that Absalom the
king, I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed un in Hebron.

15:8 For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Geshur aying, If the LORD shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I
wihe LORD.

15:9 And the king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose, aHebron.

15:10 But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Isr, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall
say, Absah in Hebron.

15:11 And with Absalom went two hundred men out of Jerust
were called; and they went in their simplicity, and they knew not an15:12 And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s
counsellis city, even from Giloh, while he offered
sacrifices. And the conspirong; for the people increased
continually with Absalom.

15:13 And the a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the
men of Israel are aft.

15:14 And David said unto all his servants that were with him at
Jerise, and let us flee; for we shall not else escape from
Absalom: makeepart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring
evil upon us, and smitewith the edge of the sword.

15:15 And the king’s servants said unto Behold, thy servants
are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shalt.

15:16 And the king went forth, and all his household after him. An left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house.

15:17 And nt forth, and all the people after him, and
tarried in a place that wa

15:18 And all his servants passed on beside him; and all the
CherethPelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred
men which came after him passed on before the king.

15:19 Then said the king to Ittai the Gitfore goest thou
also with us? return to thy place, and abide with the hou
art a stranger, and also an exile.

15:20 Whereas thou camest but should I this day make thee
go up and down with us? seeing I go whitheturn thou, and
take back thy brethren: mercy and truth be with thee.

tai answered the king, and said, As the LORD liveth, and
as my lord thth, surely in what place my lord the king
shall be, whether in death on there also will thy servant
be.

15:22 And David said to Ittai, Go a. And Ittai the Gittite
passed over, and all his men, and all the littt were with
him.

15:23 And all the country wept with a loud voice, anople
passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, e people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.

15:24 And lo  and all the Levites were with him, bearing
the ark of the covenant ofhey set down the ark of God; and
Abiathar went up, until all the peopl passing out of the
city.

15:25 And the king said unto Zadok, Carry bk of God into the
city: if I shall find favour in the eyes of the LORDbring me
again, and shew me both it, and his habitation: 15:26 But if  I have no delight in thee; behold, here am I, let him do to me as
seeunto him.

15:27 The king said also unto Zadok the priest, Art not thoeturn into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz thy
onathan the son of Abiathar.

15:28 See, I will tarry in the plain of ess, until there
come word from you to certify me.

15:29 Zadok therefiathar carried the ark of God again to
Jerusalem: and they tarried theAnd David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet, and wept as he
went uhis head covered, and he went barefoot: and all the
people that was wired every man his head, and they went up,
weeping as they went up.

15e told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators
with Absalod said, O LORD, I pray thee, turn the counsel of
Ahithophel into fooli5:32 And it came to pass, that when David was come to the top of the
m he worshipped God, behold, Hushai the Archite came to
meet him with hpon his head: 15:33 Unto whom
David said, If thou passest on with me, e: 15:34 But if thou return to the city, and say unto Absalom, I
will be thy servant, O king; as I have been thy father’s servant
hitherto, so will I now also be thy servant: then mayest thou for me
defeat thl of Ahithophel.

15:35 And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abe
priests?  therefore it shall be, that what thing soever thou shalt
hthe king’s house, thou shalt tell it to Zadok and Abiathar
the priesBehold, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz
Zadok’s sothan Abiathar’s son; and by them ye shall send
unto me every thing t hear.

15:37 So Hushai David’s friend came into the city, and Absalo Jerusalem.

16:1 And when David was a little past the top of the hilZiba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of asses
saddln them two hundred loaves of bread, and an hundred
bunches of raisins,dred of summer fruits, and a bottle of
wine.

16:2 And the king said uhat meanest thou by these? And Ziba
said, The asses be for the king’d to ride on; and the bread
and summer fruit for the young men to eat;that such as
be faint in the wilderness may drink.

16:3 And the king , And where is thy master’s son? And Ziba said
unto the king, Beholdth at Jerusalem: for he said, To day
shall the house of Israel restorengdom of my father.

16:4 Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine arpertained
unto Mephibosheth. And Ziba said, I humbly beseech thee thatgrace in thy sight, my lord, O king.

16:5 And when king David came tobehold, thence came out a
man of the family of the house of Saul, whos Shimei, the son
of Gera: he came forth, and cursed still as he came.
tones at David, and at all the servants of king
David: and all the peoll the mighty men were on his right
hand and on his left.

16:7 And thimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou
bloody man, and thou man: 16:8 The LORD hath returned upon
thee all the blood of the house of ose stead thou hast
reigned; and the LORD hath delivered the kingdom ind of
Absalom thy son: and, behold, thou art taken in thy mischief, beu art a bloody man.

16:9 Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto thy should
this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray take off his head.

16:10 And the king said, What have I to do with yo of
Zeruiah?  so let him curse, because the LORD hath said unto him, Cd. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so?  16:11 And
David sshai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which
came forth of my eketh my life: how much more now may this
Benjamite do it? let him alourse; for the LORD hath
bidden him.

16:12 It may be that the LORD wiline affliction, and that
the LORD will requite me good for his cursing
16:13 And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on
s side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw
stones at hast dust.

16:14 And the king, and all the people that were with him, ,
and refreshed themselves there.

16:15 And Absalom, and all the peopn of Israel, came to
Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him.

16:16 And itass, when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend,
was come unto Absalom,ai said unto Absalom, God save the
king, God save the king.

16:17 Andaid to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend?
why wentest thou nofriend?  16:18 And Hushai said unto
Absalom, Nay; but whom the LORD, aple, and all the men of
Israel, choose, his will I be, and with him wi.

16:19 And again, whom should I serve? should I not serve in the
prehis son? as I have served in thy father’s presence, so
will I be in ce.

16:20 Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give counsel among you wha do.

16:21 And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father’s, which he hath left to keep the house; and all Israel shall
hear tha abhorred of thy father: then shall the hands of all
that are with the.

16:22 So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house; and
ent in unto his father’s concubines in the sight of all
Israel.

16:e counsel of Ahithophel, which he counselled in those
days, was as if enquired at the oracle of God: so was all
the counsel of Ahithophel bovid and with Absalom.

17:1 Moreover Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Letoose out
twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David : 17:2 And I will come upon him while he is weary and weak
handed, ande him afraid: and all the people that are with him
shall flee; and I wthe king only: 17:3 And I will bring back
all the people unto thee: th thou seekest is as if all
returned: so all the people shall be in peaAnd the saying pleased Absalom well, and all the elders of
Israel.

17id Absalom, Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let us
hear likewisesaith.

17:6 And when Hushai was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto h, Ahithophel hath spoken after this manner: shall we do after
his sayi; speak thou.

17:7 And Hushai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahith
given is not good at this time.

17:8 For, said Hushai, thou knoweser and his men, that they
be mighty men, and they be chafed in their mbear robbed of
her whelps in the field: and thy father is a man of warnot
lodge with the people.

17:9 Behold, he is hid now in some pit, orher place: and it
will come to pass, when some of them be overthrown a, that
whosoever heareth it will say, There is a slaughter among the pthat follow Absalom.

17:10 And he also that is valiant, whose heart ieart of a
lion, shall utterly melt: for all Israel knoweth that thy famighty man, and they which be with him are valiant men.

17:11 Therefol that all Israel be generally gathered unto
thee, from Dan even to Bes the sand that is by the sea for
multitude; and that thou go to battl own person.

17:12 So shall we come upon him in some place where he snd,
and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground: and oof all the men that are with him there shall not be left so
much as onMoreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel
bring rop city, and we will draw it into the river, until
there be not one smalund there.

17:14 And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For the
LORD ed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the
intent that the LOing evil upon Absalom.

17:15 Then said Hushai unto Zadok and to Abiatiests, Thus
and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of d
thus and thus have I counselled.

17:16 Now therefore send quickly, David, saying, Lodge not
this night in the plains of the wilderness, by pass over;
lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that ar.

17:17 Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed by Enrogel; for they might noo come into the city: and a wench went and told them; and
they went ang David.

17:18 Nevertheless a lad saw them, and told Absalom: but theh of them away quickly, and came to a man’s house in Bahurim, which
 in his court; whither they went down.

17:19 And the woman took and svering over the well’s mouth,
and spread ground corn thereon; and thas not known.

17:20 And when Absalom’s servants came to the woman te, they
said, Where is Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said unto tbe gone over the brook of water. And when they had sought and
could nom, they returned to Jerusalem.

17:21 And it came to pass, after they rted, that they came up
out of the well, and went and told king David,unto David,
Arise, and pass quickly over the water: for thus hath Ahitnselled against you.

17:22 Then David arose, and all the people that him, and
they passed over Jordan: by the morning light there lacked no
them that was not gone over Jordan.

17:23 And when Ahithophel saw thnsel was not followed, he
saddled his ass, and arose, and gat him homeuse, to his
city, and put his household in order, and hanged himself, nd was buried in the sepulchre of his father.

17:24 Then David came t And Absalom passed over Jordan, he
and all the men of Israel with himd Absalom made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab:
which Amasa s son, whose name was Ithra an Israelite, that
went in to Abigail theof Nahash, sister to Zeruiah Joab’s
mother.

17:26 So Israel and Absed in the land of Gilead.

17:27 And it came to pass, when David was chanaim, that Shobi
the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammoir the
son of Ammiel of Lodebar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of RogeliBrought beds, and basons, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and
barley,  and parched corn, and beans, and lentiles, and
parched pulse, 17:29 Aand butter, and sheep, and cheese of
kine, for David, and for the peope with him, to eat: for
they said, The people is hungry, and weary, anin the
wilderness.

18:1 And David numbered the people that were with t
captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds over them.

18:2 Andt forth a third part of the people under the hand of
Joab, and a thirdr the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah,
Joab’s brother, and a thirr the hand of Ittai the Gittite.
And the king said unto the people, I  go forth with you
myself also.

18:3 But the people answered, Thou sh forth: for if we flee
away, they will not care for us; neither if hale, will they
care for us: but now thou art worth ten thousand of us: tw
it is better that thou succour us out of the city.

18:4 And the kino them, What seemeth you best I will do. And
the king stood by the gatl the people came out by
hundreds and by thousands.

18:5 And the kingmanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Deal
gently for my sake witg man, even with Absalom. And all the
people heard when the king gave ptains charge concerning
Absalom.

18:6 So the people went out into thinst Israel: and the
battle was in the wood of Ephraim; 18:7 Where the Israel
were slain before the servants of David, and there was there aughter that day of twenty thousand men.

18:8 For the battle was thereover the face of all the
country: and the wood devoured more people thn the sword
devoured.

18:9 And Absalom met the servants of David. Androde upon a
mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great his
head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaveearth; and the mule that was under him went away.

18:10 And a certain, and told Joab, and said, Behold, I saw
Absalom hanged in an oak.

18ab said unto the man that told him, And, behold, thou
sawest him, and thou not smite him there to the ground? and
I would have given thee te silver, and a girdle.

18:12 And the man said unto Joab, Though I sho a thousand
shekels of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth 
against the king’s son: for in our hearing the king charged thee an and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young man
Absalom.

18:se I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life:
for there isr hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest
have set thyself agains:14 Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took
three his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom,
while he was yn the midst of the oak.

18:15 And ten young men that bare Joab’s arassed about and
smote Absalom, and slew him.

18:16 And Joab blew the nd the people returned from pursuing
after Israel: for Joab held back le.

18:17 And they took Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in thelaid a very great heap of stones upon him: and all Israel
fled every otent.

18:18 Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for hillar, which is in the king’s dale: for he said, I have no son to
ke in remembrance: and he called the pillar after his own
name: and it iunto this day, Absalom’s place.

18:19 Then said Ahimaaz the son of me now run, and bear the
king tidings, how that the LORD hath avenged  enemies.

18:20 And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings tbut thou shalt bear tidings another day: but this day thou shalt bear
s, because the king’s son is dead.

18:21 Then said Joab to Cushi, G king what thou hast seen.
And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran.n said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But
howsoever, let y thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said,
Wherefore wilt thou run, eeing that thou hast no tidings
ready?  18:23 But howsoever, said he,  And he said unto
him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, n Cushi.

18:24 And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman 
the roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and
loobehold a man running alone.

18:25 And the watchman cried, and told thd the king said, If
he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And hee, and
drew near.

18:26 And the watchman saw another man running: andman
called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone king said, He also bringeth tidings.

18:27 And the watchman said, Me the running of the foremost
is like the running of Ahimaaz the son ofd the king said, He
is a good man, and cometh with good tidings.

18:2aaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he
fell down to tpon his face before the king, and said,
Blessed be the LORD thy God, w delivered up the men that
lifted up their hand against my lord the ki And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz
answereoab sent the king’s servant, and me thy servant, I saw
a great tumulnew not what it was.

18:30 And the king said unto him, Turn aside, anere. And he
turned aside, and stood still.

18:31 And, behold, Cushi cushi said, Tidings, my lord the
king: for the LORD hath avenged thee tall them that rose up
against thee.

18:32 And the king said unto Cushyoung man Absalom safe? And
Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the, and all that rise
against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man33 And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the
gapt: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my
son, my son Abs God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son,
my son!  19:1 And it was  Behold, the king weepeth and
mourneth for Absalom.

19:2 And the victday was turned into mourning unto all the
people: for the people hearday how the king was grieved for
his son.

19:3 And the people gat themh that day into the city, as
people being ashamed steal away when theybattle.

19:4 But the king covered his face, and the king cried with ace, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!  19:5 And Joab
came ise to the king, and said, Thou hast shamed this day
the faces of all tnts, which this day have saved thy life, and
the lives of thy sons andughters, and the lives of thy
wives, and the lives of thy concubines; hat thou lovest thine
enemies, and hatest thy friends. For thou hast ds day, that
thou regardest neither princes nor servants: for this day 
that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had
ee well.

19:7 Now therefore arise, go forth, and speak comfortably unervants: for I swear by the LORD, if thou go not forth, there will
note with thee this night: and that will be worse unto thee
than all the efell thee from thy youth until now.

19:8 Then the king arose, and sate. And they told unto all
the people, saying, Behold, the king doth sgate. And all the
people came before the king: for Israel had fled eveis
tent.

19:9 And all the people were at strife throughout all the trrael, saying, The king saved us out of the hand of our enemies, and
he us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is fled
out of the bsalom.

19:10 And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battlerefore why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back?  19:11
And sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying,
Speak unto the elde, saying, Why are ye the last to bring
the king back to his house? see speech of all Israel is come to
the king, even to his house.

19:12 Yrethren, ye are my bones and my flesh: wherefore then
are ye the last ack the king?  19:13 And say ye to Amasa,
Art thou not of my bone, andh? God do so to me, and more
also, if thou be not captain of the host continually in the
room of Joab.

19:14 And he bowed the heart of all Judah, even as the
heart of one man; so that they sent this word unto Return
thou, and all thy servants.

19:15 So the king returned, and ca. And Judah came to
Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to conduct the kindan.

19:16 And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite, which was of Bahu and came down with the men of Judah to meet king David.

19:17 And th thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the
servant of the house d his fifteen sons and his twenty
servants with him; and they went ovee went over a ferry boat to carry over the king’s
household, and to hought good. And Shimei the son of Gera
fell down before the king, as he was come over Jordan; 19:19 And said
unto the king, Let not my lord iniquity unto me, neither do
thou remember that which thy servant didly the day that my
lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king e it to
his heart.

19:20 For thy servant doth know that I have sinnede, behold,
I am come the first this day of all the house of Joseph to meet my lord the king.

19:21 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered  Shall not
Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the LORDted?  19:22 And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons
of Zert ye should this day be adversaries unto me? shall
there any man be pu this day in Israel? for do not I know
that I am this day king over Is23 Therefore the king said
unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die. And the kinto him.

19:24 And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet thed
had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his
om the day the king departed until the day he came again in
peace.

19o pass, when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the
king, that the king id unto him, Wherefore wentest not thou with me,
Mephibosheth?  19:26 swered, My lord, O king, my servant
deceived me: for thy servant said,addle me an ass, that I may
ride thereon, and go to the king; because  is lame.

19:27 And he hath slandered thy servant unto my lord the ki
lord the king is as an angel of God: do therefore what is good in
thi

19:28 For all of my father’s house were but dead men before my lor: yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at
thine own  right therefore have I yet to cry any more unto
the king?  19:29 And aid unto him, Why speakest thou any
more of thy matters? I have said, iba divide the land.

19:30 And Mephibosheth said unto the king, Yea,  take all,
forasmuch as my lord the king is come again in peace unto he.

19:31 And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim, and wentan with the king, to conduct him over Jordan.

19:32 Now Barzillai wasd man, even fourscore years old: and
he had provided the king of suste he lay at Mahanaim; for
he was a very great man.

19:33 And the king Barzillai, Come thou over with me, and I
will feed thee with me in Jer9:34 And Barzillai said unto the king, How long have I to live, that
Iup with the king unto Jerusalem?  19:35 I am this day
fourscore years can I discern between good and evil? can thy
servant taste what I eat rink? can I hear any more the
voice of singing men and singing women? then should thy
servant be yet a burden unto my lord the king?  19:36 t will
go a little way over Jordan with the king: and why should the kpense it me with such a reward?  19:37 Let thy servant, I pray
thee, t again, that I may die in mine own city, and be buried
by the grave of my mother. But behold thy servant
Chimham; let him go over with my lo; and do to him what
shall seem good unto thee.

19:38 And the king animham shall go over with me, and I will
do to him that which shall see thee: and whatsoever thou
shalt require of me, that will I do for theAnd all the people went over Jordan. And when the king was come
over, ssed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned unto
his own place.

 the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him:
and all the Judah conducted the king, and also half the
people of Israel.

19:41 d, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said
unto the king, Whyrethren the men of Judah stolen thee
away, and have brought the king, usehold, and all David’s
men with him, over Jordan?  19:42 And all tJudah answered
the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to ue
then be ye angry for this matter? have we eaten at all of the kingr hath he given us any gift?  19:43 And the men of Israel
answered thedah, and said, We have ten parts in the king,
and we have also more rid than ye: why then did ye despise
us, that our advice should not be fn bringing back our king?
And the words of the men of Judah were fierce words of the
men of Israel.

20:1 And there happened to be there a ml, whose name was
Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite: and he blew and
said, We have no part in David, neither have we inheritance in the se: every man to his tents, O Israel.

20:2 So every man of Israel wenfter David, and followed
Sheba the son of Bichri: but the men of Judah their king,
from Jordan even to Jerusalem.

20:3 And David came to hi Jerusalem; and the king took the
ten women his concubines, whom he haeep the house, and put
them in ward, and fed them, but went not in untthey were
shut up unto the day of their death, living in widowhood.

2id the king to Amasa, Assemble me the men of Judah within
three days,  here present.

20:5 So Amasa went to assemble the men of Judah: but hlonger
than the set time which he had appointed him.

20:6 And David sshai, Now shall Sheba the son of Bichri do
us more harm than did Absalou thy lord’s servants, and
pursue after him, lest he get him fencedd escape us.

20:7 And there went out after him Joab’s men, and the , and
the Pelethites, and all the mighty men: and they went out of
Jer pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.

20:8 When they were at the grehich is in Gibeon, Amasa went
before them. And Joab’s garment that ht on was girded unto
him, and upon it a girdle with a sword fastened uins in the
sheath thereof; and as he went forth it fell out.

20:9 Andid to Amasa, Art thou in health, my brother? And Joab
took Amasa by thh the right hand to kiss him.

20:10 But Amasa took no heed to the swos in Joab’s hand: so
he smote him therewith in the fifth rib, and shbowels to
the ground, and struck him not again; and he died. So Joab ai
his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri.

20:11 And one ofmen stood by him, and said, He that favoureth
Joab, and he that is for him go after Joab.

20:12 And Amasa wallowed in blood in the midst ofay. And
when the man saw that all the people stood still, he removed Aof the highway into the field, and cast a cloth upon him, when he saw
 one that came by him stood still.

20:13 When he was removed out of t, all the people went on
after Joab, to pursue after Sheba the son of 0:14 And he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, and to
Be and all the Berites: and they were gathered together, and
went also a
20:15 And they came and besieged him in Abel of Bethmaachah, and they a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench: and all
the peopre with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down.

20:16 Then cried a  out of the city, Hear, hear; say, I pray
you, unto Joab, Come near hi I may speak with thee.

20:17 And when he was come near unto her, thed, Art thou
Joab?  And he answered, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hrds of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do hear.

20:18 Then she spa, They were wont to speak in old time,
saying, They shall surely ask cbel: and so they ended the
matter.

20:19 I am one of them that are ped faithful in Israel: thou
seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Iwilt thou
swallow up the inheritance of the LORD?  20:20 And Joab answid, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or
destroy. matter is not so: but a man of mount Ephraim, Sheba the son
of Bichriath lifted up his hand against the king, even
against David: deliver hd I will depart from the city. And
the woman said unto Joab, Behold, hll be thrown to thee
over the wall.

20:22 Then the woman went unto ale in her wisdom. And they
cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri,it out to Joab.
And he blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city,man to
his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king.

20:23 as over all the host of Israel: and Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada was ovethites and over the Pelethites: 20:24 And
Adoram was over the tributeoshaphat the son of Ahilud was
recorder: 20:25 And Sheva was scribe: ad Abiathar were the
priests: 20:26 And Ira also the Jairite was a chieout David.

21:1 Then there was a famine in the days of David three yefter year; and David enquired of the LORD. And the LORD answered, It
i, and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites.

21:2 And lled the Gibeonites, and said unto them; (now the
Gibeonites were not ldren of Israel, but of the remnant of
the Amorites; and the children ad sworn unto them: and Saul
sought to slay them in his zeal to the chIsrael and Judah.)
21:3 Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, Whato for
you?  and wherewith shall I make the atonement, that ye may blesitance of the LORD?  21:4 And the Gibeonites said unto him, We
will haer nor gold of Saul, nor of his house; neither for us
shalt thou kill  Israel. And he said, What ye shall say,
that will I do for you.

21:5nswered the king, The man that consumed us, and that
devised against ushould be destroyed from remaining in any
of the coasts of Israel, 21: men of his sons be delivered
unto us, and we will hang them up unto t Gibeah of Saul,
whom the LORD did choose. And the king said, I will g.

21:7 But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son ecause of the LORD’s oath that was between them, between David
and J son of Saul.

21:8 But the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daugh,
whom she bare unto Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth; and the five sons  daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel the son of
Barzillai Meholathite: 21:9 And he delivered them into the hands
of the Gibeoni hanged them in the hill before the LORD:
and they fell all seven togeere put to death in the days of
harvest, in the first days, in the begbarley harvest.

21:10 And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth,d it
for her upon the rock, from the beginning of harvest until water
n them out of heaven, and suffered neither the birds of the
air to resby day, nor the beasts of the field by night.

21:11 And it was told D Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the
concubine of Saul, had done.

21:12 went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of
Jonathan his son fromof Jabeshgilead, which had stolen them
from the street of Bethshan, whilistines had hanged them,
when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilbnd he brought up
from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonath; and
they gathered the bones of them that were hanged.

21:14 And theSaul and Jonathan his son buried they in the
country of Benjamin in Zee sepulchre of Kish his father: and
they performed all that the king cAnd after that God was
intreated for the land.

21:15 Moreover the Phihad yet war again with Israel; and
David went down, and his servants wnd fought against the
Philistines: and David waxed faint.

21:16 And I which was of the sons of the giant, the weight
of whose spear weigheddred shekels of brass in weight, he
being girded with a new sword, thoe slain David.

21:17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah succoured him, ane
Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David sware unto him,
sashalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench
not the light

21:18 And it came to pass after this, that there was again a battle
hilistines at Gob: then Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Saph,
which was s of the giant.

21:19 And there was again a battle in Gob with the Phwhere
Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim, a Bethlehemite, slew the brother the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver’s
beam.

21here was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of great
stature, that ery hand six fingers, and on every foot six
toes, four and twenty in n; and he also was born to the giant.

21:21 And when he defied Israel,the son of Shimeah the
brother of David slew him.

21:22 These four weo the giant in Gath, and fell by the hand
of David, and by the hand ofants.

22:1 And David spake unto the LORD the words of this song in tht the LORD had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies,
and ohand of Saul: 22:2 And he said, The LORD is my rock,
and my fortress, iverer; 22:3 The God of my rock; in him
will I trust: he is my shield,horn of my salvation, my high
tower, and my refuge, my saviour; thou som violence.

22:4 I will call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praise I
be saved from mine enemies.

22:5 When the waves of death compassedloods of ungodly men
made me afraid; 22:6 The sorrows of hell compasset; the
snares of death prevented me; 22:7 In my distress I called uponand cried to my God: and he did hear my voice out of his temple,
and md enter into his ears.

22:8 Then the earth shook and trembled; the fof heaven
moved and shook, because he was wroth.

22:9 There went up a  of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindl.

22:10 He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was unet.

22:11 And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: and he was seen upos of the wind.

22:12 And he made darkness pavilions round about him, s, and
thick clouds of the skies.

22:13 Through the brightness beforecoals of fire kindled.

22:14 The LORD thundered from heaven, and the uttered his
voice.

22:15 And he sent out arrows, and scattered them;  and
discomfited them.

22:16 And the channels of the sea appeared, thons of the
world were discovered, at the rebuking of the LORD, at the the breath of his nostrils.

22:17 He sent from above, he took me; he  of many waters;
22:18 He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

22:19 They prevented me inof my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

22:20 He brought me forth aa large place: he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

22:21 The rewarded me according to my righteousness: according to
the cleannessands hath he recompensed me.

22:22 For I have kept the ways of the LOve not wickedly
departed from my God.

22:23 For all his judgments werme: and as for his statutes, I
did not depart from them.

22:24 I was t before him, and have kept myself from mine
iniquity.

22:25 Thereforhath recompensed me according to my
righteousness; according to my cleis eye sight.

22:26 With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself mercifulthe
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright.

22:27 With the pure thew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself unsavourAnd the afflicted people thou wilt save: but thine eyes are upon
the h thou mayest bring them down.

22:29 For thou art my lamp, O LORD: andill lighten my
darkness.

22:30 For by thee I have run through a troop have I leaped
over a wall.

22:31 As for God, his way is perfect; thee LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all them that trust in him.

22:32 God, save the LORD? and who is a rock, save our God?
22:33 God is my d power: and he maketh my way perfect.

22:34 He maketh my feet like het: and setteth me upon my high
places.

22:35 He teacheth my hands tohat a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

22:36 Thou hast also givenield of thy salvation: and thy
gentleness hath made me great.

22:37 Tnlarged my steps under me; so that my feet did not
slip.

22:38 I havene enemies, and destroyed them; and turned not
again until I had consu
22:39 And I have consumed them, and wounded them, that they could not, they are fallen under my feet.

22:40 For thou hast girded me with sbattle: them that rose
up against me hast thou subdued under me.

22:4 also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might
destroy them th.

22:42 They looked, but there was none to save; even unto the LORD, red them not.

22:43 Then did I beat them as small as the dust of the 
stamp them as the mire of the street, and did spread them abroad.

22so hast delivered me from the strivings of my people,
thou hast kept mad of the heathen: a people which I knew not
shall serve me.

22:45 Stll submit themselves unto me: as soon as they hear,
they shall be obed.

22:46 Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid out of thplaces.

22:47 The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and exalted beof the rock of my salvation.

22:48 It is God that avengeth me, and th down the people
under me.

22:49 And that bringeth me forth from minees: thou also hast
lifted me up on high above them that rose up againsthou hast
delivered me from the violent man.

22:50 Therefore I will gs unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and I will sing praises unto t22:51 He is the tower of salvation for his king: and sheweth mercy to
nted, unto David, and to his seed for evermore.

23:1 Now these be the David the son of Jesse
said, and the man who was raised up on high, teet psalmist of Israel, said, 23:2 The Spirit of
the LORD spake by me, and his word was in my tongue.

23:3 The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me, He that
ruleth over men must be just, ruling i fear of God.

23:4 And he shall be as the light of the morning, when iseth,
even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing ourth by clear shining after rain.

23:5 Although my house be not so withe hath made with me an
everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, aor this is all
my salvation, and all my desire, although he make it no
23:6 But the sons of Belial shall be all of them as thorns thrust
awa they cannot be taken with hands: 23:7 But the man that
shall touch thfenced with iron and the staff of a spear;
and they shall be utterly bh fire in the same place.

23:8 These be the names of the mighty men wad: The
Tachmonite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains; the Adino the Eznite: he lift up his spear against eight hundred, whom
hene time.

23:9 And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, e
three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that
wgathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were
gone away: 23:e, and smote the Philistines until his hand
was weary, and his hand clo the sword: and the LORD wrought a
great victory that day; and the pened after him only to
spoil.

23:11 And after him was Shammah the son e Hararite. And the
Philistines were gathered together into a troop, w piece of
ground full of lentiles: and the people fled from the Philis3:12 But he stood in the midst of the ground, and defended it, and
slelistines: and the LORD wrought a great victory.

23:13 And three of thchief went down, and came to David in
the harvest time unto the cave o: and the troop of the
Philistines pitched in the valley of Rephaim.

 David was then in an hold, and the garrison of the
Philistines was thehem.

23:15 And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me driater of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!  23:16 And
the thhty men brake through the host of the Philistines, and
drew water out l of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and
took it, and brought it to Dtheless he would not drink
thereof, but poured it out unto the LORD.

he said, Be it far from me, O LORD, that I should do this:
is not thisof the men that went in jeopardy of their lives?
therefore he would no These things did these three mighty
men.

23:18 And Abishai, the brotb, the son of Zeruiah, was chief
among three. And he lifted up his spehundred, and
slew them, and had the name among three.

23:19 Was he nourable of three? therefore he was their
captain: howbeit he attained nhe first three.

23:20 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a v, of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lionlike men of Moabdown also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow:
23:21ew an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a
spear in his handent down to him with a staff, and plucked
the spear out of the Egyptiad, and slew him with his own spear.

23:22 These things did Benaiah thhoiada, and had the name
among three mighty men.

23:23 He was more hohan the thirty, but he attained not to
the first three. And David set is guard.

23:24 Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhson of Dodo of Bethlehem, 23:25 Shammah the Harodite, Elika the
Harodi Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
23:27 Abiezer thothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, 23:28 Zalmon
the Ahohite, Maharai thite, 23:29 Heleb the son of Baanah,
a Netophathite, Ittai the son of Rf Gibeah of the children
of Benjamin, 23:30 Benaiah the Pirathonite, He brooks of
Gaash, 23:31 Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumitliahba the Shaalbonite, of the sons of Jashen, Jonathan, 23:33
Shammahite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite, 23:34
Eliphelet the son of he son of the Maachathite, Eliam the
son of Ahithophel the Gilonite, 2ai the Carmelite, Paarai the
Arbite, 23:36 Igal the son of Nathan of Z the Gadite, 23:37
Zelek the Ammonite, Nahari the Beerothite, armourbeab the
son of Zeruiah, 23:38 Ira an Ithrite, Gareb an Ithrite, 23:39 UHittite: thirty and seven in all.

24:1 And again the anger of the LORled against Israel, and
he moved David against them to say, Go, number Judah.

24:2 For the king said to Joab the captain of the host, which
him, Go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to
Beershumber ye the people, that I may know the number of the
people.

24:3 A said unto the king, Now the LORD thy God add unto the
people, how manhey be, an hundredfold, and that the eyes of
my lord the king may see  doth my lord the king delight in
this thing?  24:4 Notwithstanding thword prevailed against
Joab, and against the captains of the host. Andthe captains
of the host went out from the presence of the king, to nueople of Israel.

24:5 And they passed over Jordan, and pitched in Aro right
side of the city that lieth in the midst of the river of Gad, aJazer: 24:6 Then they came to Gilead, and to the land of
Tahtimhodshi;came to Danjaan, and about to Zidon, 24:7 And
came to the strong hold d to all the cities of the Hivites,
and of the Canaanites: and they wehe south of Judah, even
to Beersheba.

24:8 So when they had gone throd, they came to
Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.

 And Joab gave up the sum of the number of the people unto the
king: aere in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men that
drew the sword;  of Judah were five hundred thousand men.

24:10 And David’s heart ster that he had numbered the
people.

And David said unto the LORD, I  greatly in that I have
done: and now, I beseech thee, O LORD, take awniquity of thy
servant; for I have done very foolishly.

24:11 For whes up in the morning, the word of the LORD came
unto the prophet Gad, Dseer, saying, 24:12 Go and say unto
David, Thus saith the LORD, I offeee things; choose thee one
of them, that I may do it unto thee.

24:13me to David, and told him, and said unto him, Shall
seven years of famto thee in thy land? or wilt thou flee
three months before thine enemithey pursue thee? or that
there be three days’ pestilence in thy lanse, and see what
answer I shall return to him that sent me.

24:14 Andd unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let us fall now
into the hand of tor his mercies are great: and let me not
fall into the hand of man.

2 LORD sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even
to the time  and there died of the people from Dan even to
Beersheba seventy thous24:16 And when the angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to
deste LORD repented him of the evil, and said to the angel
that destroyed  It is enough: stay now thine hand. And the
angel of the LORD was by tngplace of Araunah the Jebusite.

24:17 And David spake unto the LORD w the angel that smote
the people, and said, Lo, I have sinned, and I e wickedly: but
these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pre
against me, and against my father’s house.

24:18 And Gad came tha David, and said unto him, Go up, rear
an altar unto the LORD in the toor of Araunah the Jebusite.

24:19 And David, according to the sayingnt up as the LORD
commanded.

24:20 And Araunah looked, and saw the ki servants coming on
toward him: and Araunah went out, and bowed himsel king on
his face upon the ground.

24:21 And Araunah said, Wherefore the king come to his
servant?  And David said, To buy the threshingflo, to build
an altar unto the LORD, that the plague may be stayed from 

24:22 And Araunah said unto David, Let my lord the king take and off seemeth good unto him: behold, here be oxen for burnt
sacrifice, and nstruments and other instruments of the oxen
for wood.

24:23 All thesid Araunah, as a king, give unto the king. And
Araunah said unto the kORD thy God accept thee.

24:24 And the king said unto Araunah, Nay; bsurely buy it of
thee at a price: neither will I offer burnt offeringsLORD my
God of that which doth cost me nothing. So David bought the
thr and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.

24:25 And David built ther unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings and peace offerings. So ts intreated for the land,
and the plague was stayed from Israel.




Took of the Kings

Commonly Called:

The Third Book of the Kings


1:1 vid was old and stricken in years; and they covered
him with clothes,  no heat.

1:2 Wherefore his servants said unto him, Let there be souglord the king a young virgin: and let her stand before the king, and
lrish him, and let her lie in thy bosom, that my lord the
king may get So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the coasts of
Israel, bishag a Shunammite, and brought her to the king.

1:4 And the damsel was very fair, and cherished the king, and
ministered to him: but the king knew her not.

1:5 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will
be king: and he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to
run before him.

1:6 And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why
hast thou done so? and he also was a very goodly man; and his mother
bare him after Absalom.

1:7 And he cith Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar
the priest: and they fonijah helped him.

1:8 But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jed Nathan
the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men which beto
David, were not with Adonijah.

1:9 And Adonijah slew sheep and oxed fat cattle by the stone of
Zoheleth, which is by Enrogel, and calledrethren the king’s
sons, and all the men of Judah the king’s servaBut Nathan
the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon h
he called not.

1:11 Wherefore Nathan spake unto Bathsheba the mother,
saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith doth
revid our lord knoweth it not?  1:12 Now therefore come,
let me, I pray  thee counsel, that thou mayest save thine
own life, and the life of tomon.

1:13 Go and get thee in unto king David, and say unto him, Dids, my lord, O king, swear unto thine handmaid, saying, Assuredly
Solomohall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?
why then doth Adn?  1:14 Behold, while thou yet talkest
there with the king, I also wi after thee, and confirm thy
words.

1:15 And Bathsheba went in unto to the chamber: and the
king was very old; and Abishag the Shunammite mnto the
king.

1:16 And Bathsheba bowed, and did obeisance unto the kie
king said, What wouldest thou?  1:17 And she said unto him, My lord,rest by the LORD thy God unto thine handmaid, saying,
Assuredly Solomon shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon
my throne.

1:18 And nowAdonijah reigneth; and now, my lord the king,
thou knowest it not: 1:1hath slain oxen and fat cattle and
sheep in abundance, and hath calledons of the king, and
Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the olomon thy
servant hath he not called.

1:20 And thou, my lord, O king of all Israel are upon thee,
that thou shouldest tell them who shall  throne of my lord
the king after him.

1:21 Otherwise it shall come then my lord the king shall
sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Sll be counted
offenders.

1:22 And, lo, while she yet talked with the an the prophet
also came in.

1:23 And they told the king, saying, Behthe prophet. And
when he was come in before the king, he bowed himselfhe king
with his face to the ground.

1:24 And Nathan said, My lord, Ot thou said, Adonijah shall
reign after me, and he shall sit upon my t5 For he is gone
down this day, and hath slain oxen and fat cattle andbundance, and hath called all the king’s sons, and the captains of
tnd Abiathar the priest; and, behold, they eat and drink
before him, and save king Adonijah.

1:26 But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok thed Benaiah
the son of Jehoiada, and thy servant Solomon, hath he not ca7 Is this thing done by my lord the king, and thou hast not shewed
it rvant, who should sit on the throne of my lord the king
after him?  1:ing David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba.
And she came into the esence, and stood before the king.

1:29 And the king sware, and said,RD liveth, that hath
redeemed my soul out of all distress, 1:30 Even anto thee
by the LORD God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son n after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead; even so
will y do this day.

1:31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth, verence to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live for ever.

ng David said, Call me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the
prophet, and Bson of Jehoiada. And they came before the
king.

1:33 The king also sam, Take with you the servants of your
lord, and cause Solomon my son tmine own mule, and bring
him down to Gihon: 1:34 And let Zadok the prihan the
prophet anoint him there king over Israel: and blow ye with thnd say, God save king Solomon.

1:35 Then ye shall come up after him, y come and sit upon my
throne; for he shall be king in my stead: and Iinted him to
be ruler over Israel and over Judah.

1:36 And Benaiah thwered the king, and said,
Amen: the LORD God of my lord the king say s7 As the LORD hath been with my lord the king, even so be he with
Soloake his throne greater than the throne of my lord king
David.

1:38 So priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son
of Jehoiada, and hites, and the Pelethites, went down, and
caused Solomon to ride upon ’s mule, and brought him to
Gihon.

1:39 And Zadok the priest took a oil out of the tabernacle,
and anointed Solomon. And they blew the tr the people
said, God save king Solomon.

1:40 And all the people came after him, and the people piped with
pipes, and rejoiced with great jt the earth rent with the
sound of them.

1:41 And Adonijah and all ththat were with him heard it as
they had made an end of eating. And wherd the sound of the
trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the cn an
uproar?  1:42 And while he yet spake, behold, Jonathan the son ofhe priest came; and Adonijah said unto him, Come in; for
thou art a va and bringest good tidings.

1:43 And Jonathan answered and said to Adily our lord king
David hath made Solomon king.

1:44 And the king hath him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the
prophet, and Benaiah the son ofand the Cherethites, and the
Pelethites, and they have caused him to rthe king’s mule:
1:45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet had him
king in Gihon: and they are come up from thence rejoicing, so th rang again. This is the noise that ye have heard.

1:46 And also Solo on the throne of the kingdom.

1:47 And moreover the king’s servantless our lord king
David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better ame, and
make his throne greater than thy throne. And the king bowed hn the bed.

1:48 And also thus said the king, Blessed be the LORD God which hath given one to sit on my throne this day, mine eyes even
seei9 And all the guests that were with Adonijah were afraid, and rose
up,every man his way.

1:50 And Adonijah feared because of Solomon, and aent, and
caught hold on the horns of the altar.

1:51 And it was told aying, Behold, Adonijah feareth king
Solomon: for, lo, he hath caught  horns of the altar,
saying, Let king Solomon swear unto me today thatnot slay his
servant with the sword.

1:52 And Solomon said, If he wilself a worthy man, there
shall not an hair of him fall to the earth: bdness shall be
found in him, he shall die.

1:53 So king Solomon sent,rought him down from the altar.
And he came and bowed himself to king nd Solomon said unto
him, Go to thine house.

2:1 Now the days of Davih that he should die; and he charged
Solomon his son, saying, 2:2 I gof all the earth: be thou
strong therefore, and shew thyself a man; 2:3he charge of
the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statuts
commandments, and his judgments, and his testimonies, as it is writtlaw of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest,
and whithou turnest thyself: 2:4 That the LORD may continue
his word which hecerning me, saying, If thy children take
heed to their way, to walk be truth with all their heart and
with all their soul, there shall not fsaid he) a man on the
throne of Israel.

2:5 Moreover thou knowest als the son of Zeruiah did to me,
and what he did to the two captains of f Israel, unto Abner
the son of Ner, and unto Amasa the son of Jether,ew, and
shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war upon s loins, and in his shoes that were on his
feet.

2:6 Do therefore acchoar head go
down to the grave in peace.

2:7 But shew kindness unto the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and
let them be of those that eat at thy table: for so they came to me
when I fled because of Absalom thther.

2:8 And, behold, thou hast with thee Shimei the son of Gera, a
 of Bahurim, which cursed me with a grievous curse in the day
when I wanaim: but he came down to meet me at Jordan, and I
sware to him by thing, I will not put thee to death with
the sword.

2:9 Now therefore ht guiltless: for thou art a wise man, and
knowest what thou oughtest thim; but his hoar head bring
thou down to the grave with blood.

2:10 lept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of
David.

2:11 And at David reigned over Israel were forty years:
seven years reigned he  and thirty and three years reigned
he in Jerusalem.

2:12 Then sat Son the throne of David his father; and his
kingdom was established grea And Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of
Solom said, Comest thou peaceably? And he said, Peaceably.

2:14 He said mohave somewhat to say unto thee. And she said,
Say on.

2:15 And he sainowest that the kingdom was mine, and that all
Israel set their faces that I should reign: howbeit the kingdom
is turned about, and is becomher’s: for it was his from the
LORD.

2:16 And now I ask one petitiothee, deny me not. And she said
unto him, Say on.

2:17 And he said, Sray thee, unto Solomon the king, (for he
will not say thee nay,) that  Abishag the Shunammite to
wife.

2:18 And Bathsheba said, Well; I wilor thee unto the king.

2:19 Bathsheba therefore went unto king Solomok unto him for
Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and bowed hto
her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a seat to be set for th mother; and she sat on his right hand.

2:20 Then she said, I desire petition of thee; I pray thee,
say me not nay. And the king said unto , my mother: for I
will not say thee nay.

2:21 And she said, Let Abisunammite be given to Adonijah thy
brother to wife.

2:22 And king Soloed and said unto his mother, And why dost
thou ask Abishag the Shunammdonijah? ask for him the kingdom
also; for he is mine elder brother; e, and for Abiathar the
priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah.

2:23 Solomon sware by the LORD, saying, God do so to me, and
more also, if have not spoken this word against his own life.

2:24 Now therefore, aeth, which hath established me, and
set me on the throne of David my fho hath made me an
house, as he promised, Adonijah shall be put to deay.

2:25 And king Solomon sent by the hand of Benaiah the son of Jehoie fell upon him that he died.

2:26 And unto Abiathar the priest said Get thee to Anathoth,
unto thine own fields; for thou art worthy of dewill not at
this time put thee to death, because thou barest the ark oGod before David my father, and because thou hast been afflicted in
almy father was afflicted.

2:27 So Solomon thrust out Abiathar from beiunto the LORD;
that he might fulfil the word of the LORD, which he spaing
the house of Eli in Shiloh.

2:28 Then tidings came to Joab: for Jrned after Adonijah,
though he turned not after Absalom. And Joab fledtabernacle
of the LORD, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.

2:was told king Solomon that Joab was fled unto the
tabernacle of the LOhold, he is by the altar. Then Solomon
sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiad Go, fall upon him.

2:30 And Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the LOid unto
him, Thus saith the king, Come forth. And he said, Nay; but I ere. And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, Thus said Joab,
he answered me.

2:31 And the king said unto him, Do as he hath said, on
him, and bury him; that thou mayest take away the innocent blood,
wshed, from me, and from the house of my father.

2:32 And the LORD shais blood upon his own head, who fell
upon two men more righteous and b he, and slew them with the
sword, my father David not knowing thereofAbner the son of
Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa the son,
captain of the host of Judah.

2:33 Their blood shall therefore retuhe head of Joab, and
upon the head of his seed for ever: but upon Davin his seed,
and upon his house, and upon his throne, shall there be peer
from the LORD.

2:34 So Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up, and fem, and
slew him: and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness. the king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his room over the
host: athe priest did the king put in the room of Abiathar.

2:36 And the kin called for Shimei, and said unto him, Build
thee an house in Jerusalell there, and go not forth thence
any whither.

2:37 For it shall be, he day thou goest out, and passest over
the brook Kidron, thou shalt kertain that thou shalt surely
die: thy blood shall be upon thine own h And Shimei said unto the king, The saying is good: as my lord the
kinid, so will thy servant do. And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem
many days.

t came to pass at the end of three years, that two of the
servants of n away unto Achish son of Maachah king of Gath.
And they told Shimei, ehold, thy servants be in Gath.

2:40 And Shimei arose, and saddled hiwent to Gath to Achish
to seek his servants: and Shimei went, and brourvants from
Gath.

2:41 And it was told Solomon that Shimei had gone f to
Gath, and was come again.

2:42 And the king sent and called for Smei, and said unto him, Did I
not make thee to swear by the LORD, and unto thee, saying,
Know for a certain, on the day thou goest out, and road any
whither, that thou shalt surely die? and thou saidst unto me,that I have heard is good.

2:43 Why then hast thou not kept the oath D, and the
commandment that I have charged thee with?  2:44 The king ser to Shimei, Thou knowest all the wickedness which thine heart
is prit thou didst to David my father: therefore the LORD
shall return thy wpon thine own head; 2:45 And king Solomon
shall be blessed, and the thvid shall be established before
the LORD for ever.

2:46 So the king cnaiah the son of Jehoiada; which went
out, and fell upon him, that he the kingdom was established
in the hand of Solomon.

3:1 And Solomon mty with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took
Pharaoh’s daughter, and brouto the city of David, until he
had made an end of building his own houe house of the LORD,
and the wall of Jerusalem round about.

3:2 Only  sacrificed in high places, because there was no
house built unto the he LORD, until those days.

3:3 And Solomon loved the LORD, walking intes of David his
father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high 3:4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there; for that was the
gplace: a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon
that altar.

eon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night: and
God said, Ashall give thee.

3:6 And Solomon said, Thou hast shewed unto thy servamy
father great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth, anousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee; and thou hast
kept forgreat kindness, that thou hast given him a son to
sit on his throne, as day.

3:7 And now, O LORD my God, thou hast made thy servant king inavid my father: and I am but a little child: I know not how to go out
.

3:8 And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast
cgreat people, that cannot be numbered nor counted for
multitude.

3:9 ore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy
people, that I may between good and bad: for who is able to
judge this thy so great a pe And the speech pleased the
LORD, that Solomon had asked this thing.

od said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and
hast not askself long life; neither hast asked riches for
thyself, nor hast asked f thine enemies; but hast asked for
thyself understanding to discern j:12 Behold, I have done
according to thy words: lo, I have given thee an
understanding heart; so that there was none like thee before thee,
ter thee shall any arise like unto thee.

3:13 And I have also given thich thou hast not asked, both
riches, and honour: so that there shally among the kings
like unto thee all thy days.

3:14 And if thou wilt ways, to keep my statutes and my
commandments, as thy father David diden I will lengthen thy
days.

3:15 And Solomon awoke; and, behold, it . And he came to
Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant o, and
offered up burnt offerings, and offered peace offerings, and madto all his servants.

3:16 Then came there two women, that were harlot king, and
stood before him.

3:17 And the one woman said, O my lord, man dwell in one
house; and I was delivered of a child with her in the:18 And it came to pass the third day after that I was delivered,
that was delivered also: and we were together; there was no
stranger with  house, save we two in the house.

3:19 And this woman’s child died ht; because she overlaid
it.

3:20 And she arose at midnight, and took me, while
thine handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid held in my bosom.

3:21 And when I rose in the morning to give my child d, it
was dead: but when I had considered it in the morning, behold, iy son, which I did bear.

3:22 And the other woman said, Nay; but the y son, and the
dead is thy son. And this said, No; but the dead is thythe
living is my son. Thus they spake before the king.

3:23 Then said The one saith, This is my son that liveth,
and thy son is the dead: aher saith, Nay; but thy son is the
dead, and my son is the living.

3:he king said, Bring me a sword. And they brought a sword
before the ki And the king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half
to tnd half to the other.

3:26 Then spake the woman whose the living chilo the king,
for her bowels yearned upon her son, and she said, O my lor
the living child, and in no wise slay it. But the other said, Let it mine nor thine, but divide it.

3:27 Then the king answered and said,the living child, and
in no wise slay it: she is the mother thereof.

 all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged;
and they  king: for they saw that the wisdom of God was in
him, to do judgment.king Solomon was king over all Israel.

4:2 And these were the princes had; Azariah the son of Zadok
the priest, 4:3 Elihoreph and Ahiah, thhisha, scribes;
Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder.

4:4 And he son of Jehoiada was over the host: and Zadok and
Abiathar were the 5 And Azariah the son of Nathan was over
the officers: and Zabud the san was principal officer, and
the king’s friend: 4:6 And Ahishar wasousehold: and
Adoniram the son of Abda was over the tribute.

4:7 And d twelve officers over all Israel, which provided
victuals for the kinhousehold: each man his month in a year
made provision.

4:8 And theser names: The son of Hur, in mount Ephraim: 4:9
The son of Dekar, in Man Shaalbim, and Bethshemesh, and
Elonbethhanan: 4:10 The son of Hesed,h; to him pertained
Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher: 4:11 The son o, in all
the region of Dor; which had Taphath the daughter of Solomon :12 Baana the son of Ahilud; to him pertained Taanach and Megiddo,
andshean, which is by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from
Bethshean to Abelmehn unto the place that is beyond Jokneam:
4:13 The son of Geber, in Ram to him pertained the towns of
Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in him also pertained
the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescoreies with
walls and brasen bars: 4:14 Ahinadab the son of Iddo had Maha Ahimaaz was in Naphtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of
Solomon4:16 Baanah the son of Hushai was in Asher and in
Aloth: 4:17 Jehoshap of Paruah, in Issachar: 4:18 Shimei
the son of Elah, in Benjamin: 4:1he son of Uri was in the
country of Gilead, in the country of Sihon kiAmorites, and
of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only officer which 
land.

4:20 Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the stude, eating and drinking, and making merry.

4:21 And Solomon reignedkingdoms from the river unto the
land of the Philistines, and unto the Egypt: they brought
presents, and served Solomon all the days of his 22 And Solomon’s provision for one day was thirty measures of fine
fthreescore measures of meal, 4:23 Ten fat oxen, and twenty
oxen out oftures, and an hundred sheep, beside harts, and
roebucks, and fallowdeetted fowl.

4:24 For he had dominion over all the region on this side 
from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the riverd peace on all sides round about him.

4:25 And Judah and Israel dweltvery man under his vine and
under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beers the days of
Solomon.

4:26 And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of hhis chariots,
and twelve thousand horsemen.

4:27 And those officers pctual for king Solomon, and for all
that came unto king Solomon’s ta man in his month: they
lacked nothing.

4:28 Barley also and straw foses and dromedaries brought they
unto the place where the officers werman according to his
charge.

4:29 And God gave Solomon wisdom and und exceeding much, and
largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on te.

4:30 And Solomon’s wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the childreeast country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.

4:31 For he was wiser thanthan Ethan the Ezrahite, and
Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons ond his fame was in
all nations round about.

4:32 And he spake three troverbs: and his songs were a
thousand and five.

4:33 And he spake of from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon
even unto the hyssop that spriof the wall: he spake also of
beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping thishes.

4:34 And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomonrom
all kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom.

5:1 And Hiof Tyre sent his servants unto Solomon; for he had
heard that they hadhim king in the room of his father: for
Hiram was ever a lover of David Solomon sent to Hiram, saying, 5:3 Thou knowest how that David
my fa not build an house unto the name of the LORD his God
for the wars whiout him on every side, until the LORD put
them under the soles of his 4 But now the LORD my God hath given me rest on every side, so that
thher adversary nor evil occurrent.

5:5 And, behold, I purpose to buildunto the name of the LORD
my God, as the LORD spake unto David my fath Thy son, whom
I will set upon thy throne in thy room, he shall build nto
my name.

5:6 Now therefore command thou that they hew me cedar trLebanon; and my servants shall be with thy servants: and unto thee
wilre for thy servants according to all that thou shalt
appoint: for thouhat there is not among us any that can
skill to hew timber like unto tns.

5:7 And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, tjoiced greatly, and said, Blessed be the LORD this day, which
hath givid a wise son over this great people.

5:8 And Hiram sent to Solomon, ave considered the things
which thou sentest to me for: and I will do sire concerning
timber of cedar, and concerning timber of fir.

5:9 Myshall bring them down from Lebanon unto the sea: and I
will convey the floats unto the place that thou shalt
appoint me, and will cause themcharged there, and thou shalt
receive them: and thou shalt accomplish  in giving food for
my household.

5:10 So Hiram gave Solomon cedar trr trees according to all
his desire.

5:11 And Solomon gave Hiram twend measures of wheat for food
to his household, and twenty measures of hus gave Solomon
to Hiram year by year.

5:12 And the LORD gave Solomos he promised him: and there
was peace between Hiram and Solomon; and made a league
together.

5:13 And king Solomon raised a levy out of aland the levy
was thirty thousand men.

5:14 And he sent them to Lebanousand a month by courses: a
month they were in Lebanon, and two monthsnd Adoniram was
over the levy.

5:15 And Solomon had threescore and tend that bare burdens,
and fourscore thousand hewers in the mountains; e the chief
of Solomon’s officers which were over the work, three th
three hundred, which ruled over the people that wrought in the work.
he king commanded, and they brought great stones, costly
stones, and hs, to lay the foundation of the house.

5:18 And Solomon’s builders s builders did hew them, and the
stonesquarers: so they prepared timones to build the house.

6:1 And it came to pass in the four hundred eth year after
the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egye
fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in the month Zif, whicsecond month, that he began to build the house of the LORD.

6:2 And te length
thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits,
and the height thereof thirty cubits.

6:3 And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was
the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and ten
cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.

6:4 And for the house he made windows of narrow lights.

6:5 And against the wall of the house he built chambers round about,
against the walls of the house round about, both of the templof
the oracle: and he made chambers round about: 6:6 The nethermost
chive cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad,
and the third wbits broad: for without in the wall of the
house he made narrowed restout, that the beams should not be
fastened in the walls of the house.
e house, when it was in building, was built of stone made
ready beforeought thither: so that there was neither hammer
nor axe nor any tool ord in the house, while it was in
building.

6:8 The door for the middlas in the right side of the
house: and they went up with winding stairmiddle chamber,
and out of the middle into the third.

6:9 So he built and finished it; and covered the house with
beams and boards of cedarnd then he built chambers against all the house, five cubits
high: andd on the house with timber of cedar.

6:11 And the word of the LORD camon, saying, 6:12 Concerning
this house which thou art in building, if walk in my
statutes, and execute my judgments, and keep all my commanalk in them; then will I perform my word with thee, which I spake
untoather: 6:13 And I will dwell among the children of
Israel, and will nomy people Israel.

6:14 So Solomon built the house, and finished it.

he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar,
both the ouse, and the walls of the ceiling: and he
covered them on the inside and covered the floor of the
house with planks of fir.

6:16 And he bu cubits on the sides of the house, both the
floor and the walls with bedar: he even built them for it
within, even for the oracle, even for ly place.

6:17 And the house, that is, the temple before it, was fortong.

6:18 And the cedar of the house within was carved with knops andrs: all was cedar; there was no stone seen.

6:19 And the oracle he pre house within, to set there the
ark of the covenant of the LORD.

6:2e in the forepart was twenty cubits in length, and
twenty cubits in brtwenty cubits in the height thereof: and
he overlaid it with pure goldered the altar which was of
cedar.

6:21 So Solomon overlaid the househ pure gold: and he made
a partition by the chains of gold before the d he overlaid
it with gold.

6:22 And the whole house he overlaid withl he had finished
all the house: also the whole altar that was by the verlaid
with gold.

6:23 And within the oracle he made two cherubims oree, each
ten cubits high.

6:24 And five cubits was the one wing of tb, and five cubits
the other wing of the cherub: from the uttermost paone wing
unto the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits.

6:25 Ar cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubims were of
one measure and on:26 The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was it of the
b.

6:27 And he set the cherubims within the inner house: and they
strth the wings of the cherubims, so that the wing of the
one touched theand the wing of the other cherub touched the
other wall; and their winone another in the midst of the
house.

6:28 And he overlaid the cheru gold.

6:29 And he carved all the walls of the house round about withgures of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, within and
without the floors of the house he overlaid with gold, within and
without.

6r the entering of the oracle he made doors of olive tree:
the lintel ats were a fifth part of the wall.

6:32 The two doors also were of olind he carved upon them
carvings of cherubims and palm trees and open fd overlaid
them with gold, and spread gold upon the cherubims, and upotrees.

6:33 So also made he for the door of the temple posts of olivefourth part of the wall.

6:34 And the two doors were of fir tree: thes of the one
door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door wg.

6:35 And he carved thereon cherubims and palm trees and open floweered them with gold fitted upon the carved work.

6:36 And he built thrt with three rows of hewed stone, and
a row of cedar beams.

6:37 In h year was the foundation of the house of the LORD
laid, in the month nd in the eleventh year, in the month
Bul, which is the eighth month, se finished throughout all
the parts thereof, and according to all thef it. So was he
seven years in building it.

7:1 But Solomon was build house thirteen years, and he
finished all his house.

7:2 He built alse of the forest of Lebanon; the length
thereof was an hundred cubits,eadth thereof fifty cubits,
and the height thereof thirty cubits, upon of cedar pillars,
with cedar beams upon the pillars.

7:3 And it was th cedar above upon the beams, that lay on
forty five pillars, fifteen

7:4 And there were windows in three rows, and light was against ligh ranks.

7:5 And all the doors and posts were square, with the windows was against light in three ranks.

7:6 And he made a porch of pillarsth thereof was fifty
cubits, and the breadth thereof thirty cubits: ans
before them: and the other pillars and the thick beam were before
th

7:7 Then he made a porch for the throne where he might judge, even tof judgment: and it was covered with cedar from one side of the
floor er.

7:8 And his house where he dwelt had another court within the por was of the like work. Solomon made also an house for Pharaoh’s
daug he had taken to wife, like unto this porch.

7:9 All these were of cos, according to the measures of
hewed stones, sawed with saws, within t, even from the
foundation unto the coping, and so on the outside toweat
court.

7:10 And the foundation was of costly stones, even great snes of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.

7:11 And above were cos, after the measures of hewed stones,
and cedars.

7:12 And the greatnd about was with three rows of hewed
stones, and a row of cedar beams the inner court of the
house of the LORD, and for the porch of the ho And king Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre.

7:14 He was a wn of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was
a man of Tyre, a worker and he was filled with wisdom, and
understanding, and cunning to works in brass. And he came to
king Solomon, and wrought all his work.

7:cast two pillars of brass, of eighteen cubits high apiece:
and a line  cubits did compass either of them about.

7:16 And he made two chapiten brass, to set upon the tops
of the pillars: the height of the one c five cubits, and
the height of the other chapiter was five cubits: 7:s of
checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the chapiters which he top of the pillars; seven for the one chapiter, and seven for
the oer.

7:18 And he made the pillars, and two rows round about upon the o to cover the chapiters that were upon the top, with
pomegranates: and for the other chapiter.

7:19 And the chapiters that were upon the toillars were of
lily work in the porch, four cubits.

7:20 And the chapthe two pillars had pomegranates also
above, over against the belly whthe network: and the
pomegranates were two hundred in rows round aboutother
chapiter.

7:21 And he set up the pillars in the porch of the tehe set
up the right pillar, and called the name thereof Jachin: and heleft pillar, and called the name thereof Boaz.

7:22 And upon the top ars was lily work: so was the work of
the pillars finished.

7:23 And olten sea, ten cubits from the one brim to the
other: it was round all his height was five cubits: and a
line of thirty cubits did compass it.

7:24 And under the brim of it round about there were knops compassn in a cubit, compassing the sea round about: the knops were
cast in then it was cast.

7:25 It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward, and
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the soutee looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them,
and ander parts were inward.

7:26 And it was an hand breadth thick, and theof was
wrought like the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies: it con thousand baths.

7:27 And he made ten bases of brass; four cubits wasof one
base, and four cubits the breadth thereof, and three cubits theit.

7:28 And the work of the bases was on this manner: they had borde borders were between the ledges: 7:29 And on the borders that
were beedges were lions, oxen, and cherubims: and upon the
ledges there was a and beneath the lions and oxen were
certain additions made of thin woAnd every base had four brasen wheels, and plates of brass: and
the fo thereof had undersetters: under the laver were
undersetters molten, a of every addition.

7:31 And the mouth of it within the chapiter and a cubit:
but the mouth thereof was round after the work of the base, aan half: and also upon the mouth of it were gravings with their
borderre, not round.

7:32 And under the borders were four wheels; and the af the
wheels were joined to the base: and the height of a wheel was a alf a cubit.

7:33 And the work of the wheels was like the work of a cl:
their axletrees, and their naves, and their felloes, and their spokl molten.

7:34 And there were four undersetters to the four corners o
and the undersetters were of the very base itself.

7:35 And in the t the base was there a round compass of half a
cubit high: and on the tbase the ledges thereof and the
borders thereof were of the same.

7:3he plates of the ledges thereof, and on the borders
thereof, he graved, lions, and palm trees, according to the
proportion of every one, ands round about.

7:37 After this manner he made the ten bases: all of te
casting, one measure, and one size.

7:38 Then made he ten lavers ofe laver contained forty
baths: and every laver was four cubits: and upone of the ten
bases one laver.

7:39 And he put five bases on the rigf the house, and five on
the left side of the house: and he set the seight side of
the house eastward over against the south.

7:40 And Hirae lavers, and the shovels, and the basons. So
Hiram made an end of doithe work that he made king Solomon for
the house of the LORD: 7:41 Thers, and the two bowls of the
chapiters that were on the top of the twoand the two
networks, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters which we
top of the pillars; 7:42 And four hundred pomegranates for the two
neven two rows of pomegranates for one network, to cover the
two bowls oiters that were upon the pillars; 7:43 And the
ten bases, and ten lavebases; 7:44 And one sea, and twelve
oxen under the sea; 7:45 And the phe shovels, and the
basons: and all these vessels, which Hiram made toomon for
the house of the LORD, were of bright brass.

7:46 In the plaan did the king cast them, in the clay ground
between Succoth and Zart7 And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because they were
exceedneither was the weight of the brass found out.

7:48 And Solomon made ssels that pertained unto the house of
the LORD: the altar of gold, ane of gold, whereupon the
shewbread was, 7:49 And the candlesticks of pfive on the
right side, and five on the left, before the oracle, with ,
and the lamps, and the tongs of gold, 7:50 And the bowls, and the
snnd the basons, and the spoons, and the censers of pure
gold; and the h, both for the doors of the inner house,
the most holy place, and for of the house, to wit, of the
temple.

7:51 So was ended all the work tolomon made for the house of
the LORD. And Solomon brought in the thinDavid his father had
dedicated; even the silver, and the gold, and thedid he put
among the treasures of the house of the LORD.

8:1 Then Solbled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of
the tribes, the chief ers of the children of Israel, unto
king Solomon in Jerusalem, that thring up the ark of the
covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, ion.

8:2 And all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto king Sol feast in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.

8:3 And all  of Israel came, and the priests took up the
ark.

8:4 And they broughrk of the LORD, and the tabernacle of the
congregation, and all the ho that were in the tabernacle,
even those did the priests and the Levitp.

8:5 And king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel, that wer unto him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep
and oxen, tnot be told nor numbered for multitude.

8:6 And the priests brought iof the covenant of the LORD
unto his place, into the oracle of the houe most holy place,
even under the wings of the cherubims.

8:7 For the spread forth their two wings over the place of
the ark, and the cherured the ark and the staves thereof
above.

8:8 And they drew out the st the ends of the staves were
seen out in the holy place before the orhey were not seen
without: and there they are unto this day.

8:9 Thering in the ark save the two tables of stone, which
Moses put there at  the LORD made a covenant with the
children of Israel, when they came land of Egypt.

8:10 And it came to pass, when the priests were come oholy
place, that the cloud filled the house of the LORD, 8:11 So that  could not stand to minister because of the cloud: for the
glory of thfilled the house of the LORD.

8:12 Then spake Solomon, The LORD said uld dwell in the
thick darkness.

8:13 I have surely built thee an houl in, a settled place
for thee to abide in for ever.

8:14 And the kinace about, and blessed all the
congregation of Israel: (and all the coegation of Israel stood;)
8:15 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God ofhich spake with
his mouth unto David my father, and hath with his handd it,
saying, 8:16 Since the day that I brought forth my people Israelpt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build an
house,ame might be therein; but I chose David to be over my
people Israel.

t was in the heart of David my father to build an house for
the name o God of Israel.

8:18 And the LORD said unto David my father, Whereas thine
heart to build an house unto my name, thou didst well that it waeart.

8:19 Nevertheless thou shalt not build the house; but thy son tome forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house unto my
name.

8:LORD hath performed his word that he spake, and I am
risen up in the rd my father, and sit on the throne of
Israel, as the LORD promised, anlt an house for the name of
the LORD God of Israel.

8:21 And I have s place for the ark, wherein is the covenant
of the LORD, which he madefathers, when he brought them out
of the land of Egypt.

8:22 And Soloefore the altar of the LORD in the presence of
all the congregation ofd spread forth his hands toward
heaven: 8:23 And he said, LORD God of re is no God like
thee, in heaven above, or on earth beneath, who keept and
mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their heao hast kept with thy servant David my father that thou
promisedst him:est also with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled
it with thine hand, as it y.

8:25 Therefore now, LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant Davi that thou promisedst him, saying, There shall not fail thee a
man in o sit on the throne of Israel; so that thy children
take heed to theirthey walk before me as thou hast walked
before me.

8:26 And now, O Go, let thy word, I pray thee, be verified,
which thou spakest unto thy id my father.

8:27 But will God indeed dwell on the earth? behold, thd
heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this house thatlded?  8:28 Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy
servant, and lication, O LORD my God, to hearken unto the
cry and to the prayer, whvant prayeth before thee to day:
8:29 That thine eyes may be open towase night and day, even
toward the place of which thou hast said, My na there: that
thou mayest hearken unto the prayer which thy servant shaard this place.

8:30 And hearken thou to the supplication of thy serv thy
people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: and hear ten thy dwelling place: and when thou hearest, forgive.

8:31 If any maagainst his neighbour, and an oath be laid
upon him to cause him to swe oath come before thine altar
in this house: 8:32 Then hear thou in hdo, and judge thy
servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way upd; and
justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteou33 When thy people Israel be smitten down before the enemy, because
thl turn again to thee, and
confess thy name, and pray, and make supplicis
house: 8:34 Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy
people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest
unto their fathers.

8:35 When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have
sinned against thee; if they pray toward this place, and confess thy
name, and turn from their sin, when thou afflictest them: 8:36 Then
hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, and of thy
people Israel, that thou teach them the good way wherein they should
walk, and give rain upon thy land, which thou hast given to thy people
for an inheritance.

8:37 If there be in the land famine, there be pestilence, blasting,
mildew, locust, or if there be caterpilheir enemy besiege
them in the land of their cities; whatsoever plagueoever
sickness there be; 8:38 What prayer and supplication soever be mman, or by all thy people Israel, which shall know every man the
plaguwn heart, and spread forth his hands toward this house:
8:39 Then hearheaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and do,
and give to every man to his ways, whose heart thou knowest;
(for thou, even thou only, knowhearts of all the children of
men;) 8:40 That they may fear thee all that they live in the
land which thou gavest unto our fathers.

8:41 Mocerning a stranger, that is not of thy people Israel,
but cometh out ountry for thy name’s sake; 8:42 (For they
shall hear of thy great na thy strong hand, and of thy
stretched out arm;) when he shall come anard this house;
8:43 Hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and do aco all
that the stranger calleth to thee for: that all people of the eaow thy name, to fear thee, as do thy people Israel; and that
they may  this house, which I have builded, is called by thy
name.

8:44 If thy out to battle against their enemy, whithersoever
thou shalt send themll pray unto the LORD toward the city
which thou hast chosen, and towause that I have built for thy
name: 8:45 Then hear thou in heaven theid their
supplication, and maintain their cause.

8:46 If they sin agaifor there is no man that sinneth not,)
and thou be angry with them, aner them to the enemy, so that
they carry them away captives unto the l enemy, far or near;
8:47 Yet if they shall bethink themselves in the were carried captives, and repent, and make supplication unto thee in
them that carried them captives, saying, We have sinned,
and have done, we have committed wickedness; 8:48 And so
return unto thee with all rt, and with all their soul, in the
land of their enemies, which led taptive, and pray unto thee
toward their land, which thou gavest unto ts, the city
which thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built fe:
8:49 Then hear thou their prayer and their supplication in heaven tng place, and maintain their cause, 8:50 And forgive thy people
that hd against thee, and all their transgressions wherein
they have transgrnst thee, and give them compassion before
them who carried them captivey may have compassion on them:
8:51 For they be thy people, and thinece, which thou
broughtest forth out of Egypt, from the midst of the fuon:
8:52 That thine eyes may be open unto the supplication of thy servto the supplication of thy people Israel, to hearken unto them
in all call for unto thee.

8:53 For thou didst separate them from among all  of the
earth, to be thine inheritance, as thou spakest by the hand ofy servant, when thou broughtest our fathers out of Egypt, O LORD
God.
it was so, that when Solomon had made an end of praying all
this prayelication unto the LORD, he arose from before the
altar of the LORD, frg on his knees with his hands spread up
to heaven.

8:55 And he stood,sed all the congregation of Israel with a
loud voice, saying, 8:56 BleLORD, that hath given rest
unto his people Israel, according to all thsed: there hath
not failed one word of all his good promise, which he  the
hand of Moses his servant.

8:57 The LORD our God be with us, as h our fathers: let him
not leave us, nor forsake us: 8:58 That he may hearts unto
him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandmentstatutes, and his judgments, which he commanded our fathers.

8:59 And my words, wherewith I have made supplication before
the LORD, be nigh ORD our God day and night, that he
maintain the cause of his servant, use of his people Israel
at all times, as the matter shall require: 8: all the people of
the earth may know that the LORD is God, and that te else.

8:61 Let your heart therefore be perfect with the LORD our Gok in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at this day.

8:62ing, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before
the LORD.

8:63n offered a sacrifice of peace offerings, which he
offered unto the LOtwenty thousand oxen, and an hundred
and twenty thousand sheep. So thell the children of Israel
dedicated the house of the LORD.

8:64 The sd the king hallow the middle of the court that was
before the house offor there he offered burnt offerings,
and meat offerings, and the fat e offerings: because the
brasen altar that was before the LORD was tooo receive the
burnt offerings, and meat offerings, and the fat of the rings.

8:65 And at that time Solomon held a feast, and all Israel wit congregation, from the entering in of Hamath unto the river of
Egypt,ore the LORD our God, seven days and seven days, even
fourteen days.

e eighth day he sent the people away: and they blessed the
king, and wheir tents joyful and glad of heart for all the
goodness that the LORDr David his servant, and for Israel
his people.

9:1 And it came to palomon had finished the building of the
house of the LORD, and the kingand all Solomon’s desire
which he was pleased to do, 9:2 That the LO to Solomon the
second time, as he had appeared unto him at Gibeon.

9 LORD said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy
supplication, tha made before me: I have hallowed this
house, which thou hast built, toe there for ever; and mine
eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetuand if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in
integri, and in uprightness, to do according to all that I
have commanded thet keep my statutes and my judgments: 9:5
Then I will establish the thrkingdom upon Israel for ever,
as I promised to David thy father, sayinall not fail thee a
man upon the throne of Israel.

9:6 But if ye shalurn from following me, ye or your
children, and will not keep my comma my statutes which I
have set before you, but go and serve other gods, them:
9:7 Then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have givnd this house, which I have hallowed for my name, will I cast
out of mnd Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all
people: 9:8 And ate, which is high, every one that passeth
by it shall be astonished, anss; and they shall say, Why
hath the LORD done thus unto this land, anouse?  9:9 And
they shall answer, Because they forsook the LORD their brought forth their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and have taken
hther gods, and have worshipped them, and served them:
therefore hath tought upon them all this evil.

9:10 And it came to pass at the end ofrs, when Solomon had
built the two houses, the house of the LORD, and s house,
9:11 (Now Hiram the king of Tyre had furnished Solomon with  and fir trees, and with gold, according to all his desire,) that
thenon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.

9:12 And Hiram ca Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had
given him; and they pleased 9:13 And he said, What cities are these which thou hast given me, my
b he called them the land of Cabul unto this day.

9:14 And Hiram sent  sixscore talents of gold.

9:15 And this is the reason of the levy whlomon raised; for
to build the house of the LORD, and his own house, and the
wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.

9:16 Foring of Egypt had gone up, and taken Gezer, and burnt
it with fire, andCanaanites that dwelt in the city, and
given it for a present unto his, Solomon’s wife.

9:17 And Solomon built Gezer, and Bethhoron the n And
Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness, in the land, 9:19 And all  of store that Solomon had, and cities for his chariots, and
cities fomen, and that which Solomon desired to build in
Jerusalem, and in Leban all the land of his dominion.

9:20 And all the people that were leforites, Hittites,
Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, which were not oren of
Israel, 9:21 Their children that were left after them in the lae children of Israel also were not able utterly to destroy,
upon thosen levy a tribute of bondservice unto this day.

9:22 But of the childrl did Solomon make no bondmen: but
they were men of war, and his servais princes, and his
captains, and rulers of his chariots, and his hors These were the chief of the officers that were over Solomon’s
work,ed and fifty, which bare rule over the people that
wrought in the work Pharaoh’s daughter came up out of the city of David unto her
house on had built for her: then did he build Millo.

9:25 And three times idid Solomon offer burnt offerings and
peace offerings upon the altar wlt unto the LORD, and he
burnt incense upon the altar that was before So he finished
the house.

9:26 And king Solomon made a navy of ships ber, which is
beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red sea, in the land o:27 And Hiram sent in the navy his servants, shipmen that had
knowledga, with the servants of Solomon.

9:28 And they came to Ophir, and fetom thence gold, four
hundred and twenty talents, and brought it to kin

10:1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon
concerame of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard
questions.

10:2 And  Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels
that bare spices, and old, and precious stones: and when
she was come to Solomon, she communm of all that was in her
heart.

10:3 And Solomon told her all her quehere was not any thing
hid from the king, which he told her not.

10:4the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon’s wisdom, and
the house thatilt, 10:5 And the meat of his table, and the
sitting of his servants, tendance of his ministers, and
their apparel, and his cupbearers, and  by which he went up
unto the house of the LORD; there was no more spi.

10:6 And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard inland of thy acts and of thy wisdom.

10:7 Howbeit I believed not the wl I came, and mine eyes had
seen it: and, behold, the half was not tolisdom and
prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard.

10:8 Happy are happy are these thy servants, which stand
continually before thee, an thy wisdom.

10:9 Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thehee
on the throne of Israel: because the LORD loved Israel for ever,
tade he thee king, to do judgment and justice.

10:10 And she gave the ndred and twenty talents of gold, and
of spices very great store, and tones: there came no more
such abundance of spices as these which the heba gave to
king Solomon.

10:11 And the navy also of Hiram, that brofrom Ophir,
brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees, and prees.

10:12 And the king made of the almug trees pillars for the house  and for the king’s house, harps also and psalteries for
singers: th such almug trees, nor were seen unto this day.

10:13 And king Solomo the queen of Sheba all her desire,
whatsoever she asked, beside that mon gave her of his royal
bounty.

So she turned and went to her own ce and her servants.

10:14 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomonr was six
hundred threescore and six talents of gold, 10:15 Beside thaof the merchantmen, and of the traffick of the spice merchants, and ofings of Arabia, and of the governors of the country.

10:16 And king S two hundred targets of beaten gold: six
hundred shekels of gold went et.

10:17 And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three pouwent to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the
forest o
10:18 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid itbest gold.

10:19 The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne ehind: and there were stays on either side on the place of the seat,
as stood beside the stays.

10:20 And twelve lions stood there on the o on the other
upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any k0:21 And all king Solomon’s drinking vessels were of gold, and all
t of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold;
none were of was nothing accounted of in the days of
Solomon.

10:22 For the king a navy of Tharshish with the navy of
Hiram: once in three years came tTharshish, bringing gold,
and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

ing Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches
and for wis And all the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which
God has heart.

10:25 And they brought every man his present, vessels of silessels of gold, and garments, and armour, and spices, horses, and
mule year by year.

10:26 And Solomon gathered together chariots and horse had
a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemebestowed in the cities for chariots, and with the king at
Jerusalem.

the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and
cedars made he he sycomore trees that are in the vale, for
abundance.

10:28 And Solorses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the
king’s merchants recenen yarn at a price.

10:29 And a chariot came up and went out of Egyphundred
shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty: and kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, did they
bring them by their means.

11:1 But king Solomon loved many strange women, togehe
daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites,
Zind Hittites: 11:2 Of the nations concerning which the LORD
said unto tn of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither
shall they come in un surely they will turn away your heart
after their gods: Solomon clave in love.

11:3 And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three ncubines: and his wives turned away his heart.

11:4 For it came to palomon was old, that his wives turned
away his heart after other gods: rt was not perfect with
the LORD his God, as was the heart of David hi

11:5 For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians,
ilcom the abomination of the Ammonites.

11:6 And Solomon did evil in f the LORD, and went not fully
after the LORD, as did David his fathern did Solomon build an high place for Chemosh, the abomination
of Moabll that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the
abomination of the chmmon.

11:8 And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burntd sacrificed unto their gods.

11:9 And the LORD was angry with Solomo his heart was turned
from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared ice, 11:10
And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he shoulder other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD commanded.

11:11 Whe LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done
of thee, and thou kept my covenant and my statutes, which I
have commanded thee, I willnd the kingdom from thee, and
will give it to thy servant.

11:12 Notw in thy days I will not do it for David thy
father’s sake: but I wilt out of the hand of thy son.

11:13 Howbeit I will not rend away all m; but will give one
tribe to thy son for David my servant’s sake, asalem’s sake
which I have chosen.

11:14 And the LORD stirred up an o Solomon, Hadad the
Edomite: he was of the king’s seed in Edom.

11came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the
captain of the hostp to bury the slain, after he had
smitten every male in Edom; 11:16 (Fhs did Joab remain
there with all Israel, until he had cut off every mm:) 11:17
That Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father’s sh
him, to go into Egypt; Hadad being yet a little child.

11:18 And thut of Midian, and came to Paran: and they took
men with them out of Pahey came to Egypt, unto Pharaoh king
of Egypt; which gave him an houseinted him victuals, and
gave him land.

11:19 And Hadad found great fa sight of Pharaoh, so that he
gave him to wife the sister of his own wster of Tahpenes
the queen.

11:20 And the sister of Tahpenes bare himes weaned in Pharaoh’s house: and Genubath was in Pharaoh’s
househnd when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers,
and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh,
Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country.

11:22 Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me,
that, behold, thou seekesgo to thine own country? And he
answered, Nothing: howbeit let me go ie.

11:23 And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of
Eich fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah: 11:24 And
he gathered im, and became captain over a band, when David
slew them of Zobah: and to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and
reigned in Damascus.

11:25 And hdversary to Israel all the days of Solomon,
beside the mischief that Hand he abhorred Israel, and
reigned over Syria.

11:26 And Jeroboam thebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda,
Solomon’s servant, whose mother’s nuah, a widow woman, even
he lifted up his hand against the king.

11:2 was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the
king: Solomon bu and repaired the breaches of the city of
David his father.

11:28 Anderoboam was a mighty man of valour: and Solomon
seeing the young man t industrious, he made him ruler over
all the charge of the house of Jo29 And it came to pass at that time when Jeroboam went out of
Jerusale prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way;
and he had clad hi a new garment; and they two were alone in
the field: 11:30 And Ahijahnew garment that was on him,
and rent it in twelve pieces: 11:31 And hto Jeroboam, Take thee
ten pieces: for thus saith the LORD, the God ofehold, I will
rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will gies
to thee: 11:32 (But he shall have one tribe for my servant David’d for Jerusalem’s sake, the city which I have chosen out of
all the Israel:) 11:33 Because that they have forsaken me,
and have worshipped the goddess of the Zidonians, Chemosh
the god of the Moabites, and Miod of the children of Ammon,
and have not walked in my ways, to do tha right in mine
eyes, and to keep my statutes and my judgments, as did father.

11:34 Howbeit I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hawill make him prince all the days of his life for David my servant’sm I chose, because he kept my commandments and my statutes:
11:35 But e the kingdom out of his son’s hand, and will give
it unto thee, evees.

11:36 And unto his son will I give one tribe, that David my serva a light alway before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have
chosen mey name there.

11:37 And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign accordll that
thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel.

11:38 And i, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command
thee, and wilt walk in nd do that is right in my sight, to
keep my statutes and my commandmenid my servant did; that I
will be with thee, and build thee a sure hou built for David,
and will give Israel unto thee.

11:39 And I will foe seed of David, but not for ever.

11:40 Solomon sought therefore to am. And Jeroboam arose,
and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypin Egypt
until the death of Solomon.

11:41 And the rest of the acts oand all that he did, and
his wisdom, are they not written in the book  of Solomon?
11:42 And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem overl
was forty years.

11:43 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was he city
of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his steadd Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem
to mak

12:2 And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was ye heard of it, (for he was fled from the presence of king
Solomon, and welt in Egypt;) 12:3 That they sent and called
him. And Jeroboam and aregation of Israel came, and spake
unto Rehoboam, saying, 12:4 Thy fatr yoke grievous: now
therefore make thou the grievous service of thy fhis heavy
yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.
e said unto them, Depart yet for three days, then come again
to me. Anle departed.

12:6 And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that re
Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise tnswer this people?  12:7 And they spake unto him, saying, If
thou wiltnt unto this people this day, and wilt serve them,
and answer them, and words to them, then they will be thy
servants for ever.

12:8 But hehe counsel of the old men, which they had given
him, and consulted witmen that were grown up with him, and
which stood before him: 12:9 And o them, What counsel give
ye that we may answer this people, who have me, saying, Make
the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter?  1e
young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus
seak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy
father made oury, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus
shalt thou say unto them, Myger shall be thicker than my
father’s loins.

12:11 And now whereas id lade you with a heavy yoke, I will
add to your yoke: my father hathyou with whips, but I will
chastise you with scorpions.

12:12 So Jerol the people came to Rehoboam the third day,
as the king had appointedCome to me again the third day.

12:13 And the king answered the peopland forsook the old
men’s counsel that they gave him; 12:14 And spaker the
counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavll add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but
I wie you with scorpions.

12:15 Wherefore the king hearkened not unto theor the cause
was from the LORD, that he might perform his saying, whice by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

12:16 So whall Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them,
the people answeing, saying, What portion have we in David?
neither have we inheritancn of Jesse: to your tents, O
Israel: now see to thine own house, Davidl departed unto
their tents.

12:17 But as for the children of Israel  in the cities of
Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

12:18 Then king nt Adoram, who was over the tribute; and
all Israel stoned him with st he died. Therefore king
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his charee to
Jerusalem.

12:19 So Israel rebelled against the house of David s day.

12:20 And it came to pass, when all Israel heard that Jeroboamagain, that they sent and called him unto the congregation, and
made her all Israel: there was none that followed the house
of David, but thJudah only.

12:21 And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembluse of Judah, with the tribe of Benjamin, an hundred and fourscore
thoen men, which were warriors, to fight against the house
of Israel, to  kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.

12:22 But the word of to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
12:23 Speak unto Rehoboam, the sonn, king of Judah, and unto
all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and tont of the people,
saying, 12:24 Thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not go uht
against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to hfor this thing is from me. They hearkened therefore to the word
of the returned to depart, according to the word of the
LORD.

12:25 Then Jeilt Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein;
and went out from theuilt Penuel.

12:26 And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the king to
the house of David: 12:27 If this people go up to do sacrifice in of the LORD at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people
turn agaeir lord, even unto Rehoboam king of Judah, and they
shall kill me, an to Rehoboam king of Judah.

12:28 Whereupon the king took counsel, an calves of gold,
and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up tm:
behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of
12:29 And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan.

12:came a sin: for the people went to worship
before the one, even unto D1 And he made an house of high places, and made priests of the
lowest le, which were not of the sons of Levi.

12:32 And Jeroboam ordained athe eighth month, on the
fifteenth day of the month, like unto the fea in Judah, and
he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrifithe
calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of thces which he had made.

12:33 So he offered upon the altar which he haBethel the
fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which sed of his own heart; and ordained a feast unto the children of
Israelffered upon the altar, and burnt incense.

13:1 And, behold, there cam God out of Judah by the word of
the LORD unto Bethel: and Jeroboam st altar to burn incense.

13:2 And he cried against the altar in the woORD, and said,
O altar, altar, thus saith the LORD; Behold, a child shn
unto the house of David, Josiah by name; and upon thee shall he offests of the high places that burn incense upon thee, and men’s
bones rnt upon thee.

13:3 And he gave a sign the same day, saying, This is ch
the LORD hath spoken; Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashe upon it shall be poured out.

13:4 And it came to pass, when king Jerd the saying of the
man of God, which had cried against the altar in Bt he put
forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. And hhich he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it
 him.

13:5 The altar also was rent, and the ashes poured out from thecording to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of
the  And the king answered and said unto the man of God, Intreat now
the fLORD thy God, and pray for me, that my hand may be
restored me again.  of God besought the LORD, and the
king’s hand was restored him agaicame as it was before.

13:7 And the king said unto the man of God, Coth me, and
refresh thyself, and I will give thee a reward.

13:8 And t of God said unto the king, If thou wilt give me half
thine house, I wo in with thee, neither will I eat bread nor
drink water in this placer so was it charged me by the word
of the LORD, saying, Eat no bread, water, nor turn again by
the same way that thou camest.

13:10 So he wr way, and returned not by the way that he came
to Bethel.

13:11 Now  an old prophet in Bethel; and his sons came and
told him all the work man of God had done that day in
Bethel: the words which he had spokenking, them they told
also to their father.

13:12 And their father saim, What way went he? For his sons
had seen what way the man of God wename from Judah.

13:13 And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass. Sdled
him the ass: and he rode thereon, 13:14 And went after the man offound him sitting under an oak: and he said unto him, Art thou the
mant camest from Judah? And he said, I am.

13:15 Then he said unto him, ith me, and eat bread.

13:16 And he said, I may not return with thee,with thee:
neither will I eat bread nor drink water with thee in this 17 For it was said to me by the word of the LORD, Thou shalt eat no
brink water there, nor turn again to go by the way that thou
camest.

13 unto him, I am a prophet also as thou art; and an angel
spake unto merd of the LORD, saying, Bring him back with
thee into thine house, that bread and drink water. But he
lied unto him.

13:19 So he went back nd did eat bread in his house, and
drank water.

13:20 And it came to ey sat at the table, that the word of
the LORD came unto the prophet tt him back: 13:21 And he
cried unto the man of God that came from Juda, Thus saith the
LORD, Forasmuch as thou hast disobeyed the mouth of tnd hast
not kept the commandment which the LORD thy God commanded theet camest back, and hast eaten bread and drunk water in the place, of
the Lord did say to thee, Eat no bread, and drink no water;
thy carcase come unto the sepulchre of thy fathers.

13:23 And it came to pass, ad eaten bread, and after he had
drunk, that he saddled for him the assfor the prophet whom
he had brought back.

13:24 And when he was gone,t him by the way, and slew him:
and his carcase was cast in the way, a stood by it, the lion
also stood by the carcase.

13:25 And, behold,  by, and saw the carcase cast in the way,
and the lion standing by thend they came and told it in the
city where the old prophet dwelt.

13:n the prophet that brought him back from the way heard
thereof, he saie man of God, who was disobedient unto the
word of the LORD: thereforehath delivered him unto the lion,
which hath torn him, and slain him,  to the word of the LORD,
which he spake unto him.

13:27 And he spakes, saying, Saddle me the ass. And they
saddled him.

13:28 And he went his carcase cast in the way, and the ass
and the lion standing by the the lion had not eaten the
carcase, nor torn the ass.

13:29 And the ok up the carcase of the man of God, and laid
it upon the ass, and brock: and the old prophet came to the
city, to mourn and to bury him.

1 laid his carcase in his own grave; and they mourned over
him, saying,brother!  13:31 And it came to pass, after he
had buried him, that he his sons, saying, When I am dead,
then bury me in the sepulchre whereif God is buried; lay my
bones beside his bones: 13:32 For the saying wed by the
word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel, and against als of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria, shall
surely ss.

13:33 After this thing Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, bin of the lowest of the people priests of the high places:
whosoever wnsecrated him, and he became one of the priests
of the high places.

1this thing became sin unto the house of Jeroboam, even to
cut it off, troy it from off the face of the earth.

14:1 At that time Abijah the oboam fell sick.

14:2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thguise
thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam; and o Shiloh: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, which told me
that I shng over this people.

14:3 And take with thee ten loaves, and cracknel of
honey, and go to him: he shall tell thee what shall become of the
ild.

14:4 And Jeroboam’s wife did so, and arose, and went to Shilohto the house of Ahijah. But Ahijah could not see; for his eyes
were seon of his age.

14:5 And the LORD said unto Ahijah, Behold, the wife o
cometh to ask a thing of thee for her son; for he is sick: thus and
tthou say unto her: for it shall be, when she cometh in,
that she shallelf to be another woman.

14:6 And it was so, when Ahijah heard the so feet, as she
came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of why
feignest thou thyself to be another? for I am sent to thee with hs.

14:7 Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Forasmualted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my
people 8 And rent the kingdom away from the house of David,
and gave it thee:hou hast not been as my servant David, who
kept my commandments, and w me with all his heart, to do
that only which was right in mine eyes; st done evil above
all that were before thee: for thou hast gone and mther
gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me back: 14:10 Therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the
house of Jed will cut off from Jeroboam him that pisseth
against the wall, and hishut up and left in Israel, and will
take away the remnant of the housam, as a man taketh away
dung, till it be all gone.

14:11 Him that dioboam in the city shall the dogs eat; and
him that dieth in the field owls of the air eat: for the
LORD hath spoken it.

14:12 Arise thou thet thee to thine own house: and when thy
feet enter into the city, thel die.

14:13 And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him: for heeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some
goward the LORD God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam.

14:14 Moreover all raise him up a king over Israel, who
shall cut off the house of Je day: but what? even now.

14:15 For the LORD shall smite Israel, as ahaken in the
water, and he shall root up Israel out of this good land,gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river,
becaus made their groves, provoking the LORD to anger.

14:16 And he shall g up because of the sins of Jeroboam, who
did sin, and who made Israel :17 And Jeroboam’s wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah: andcame to the threshold of the door, the child died; 14:18 And
they burid all Israel mourned for him, according to the word
of the LORD, whichy the hand of his servant Ahijah the
prophet.

14:19 And the rest of t Jeroboam, how he warred, and how he
reigned, behold, they are writtenok of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel.

14:20 And the days whichreigned were two and twenty years:
and he slept with his fathers, and on reigned in his stead.

14:21 And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigne Rehoboam was
forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he renteen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD did choose out
of abes of Israel, to put his name there. And his mother’s
name was Naamin the sight of the LORD, and they provoked
him to jealousy with theirhich they had committed, above all
that their fathers had done.

14:23 For they also built them high places, and images, and groves, on
everhill, and under every green tree.

14:24 And there were also sodomitesd: and they did
according to all the abominations of the nations whichcast
out before the children of Israel.

14:25 And it came to pass in ear of king Rehoboam, that
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerus4:26 And he took
away the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the of the
king’s house; he even took away all: and he took away all thef gold which Solomon had made.

14:27 And king Rehoboam made in their n shields, and
committed them unto the hands of the chief of the guardpt
the door of the king’s house.

14:28 And it was so, when the kingthe house of the LORD,
that the guard bare them, and brought them backuard
chamber.

14:29 Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all thare
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judand there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days.

14:31 am slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city And his mother’s name was Naamah an
Ammonitess. And Abijam his son his stead.

15:1 Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son oigned Abijam over Judah.

15:2 Three years reigned he in Jerusalem. aner’s name was
Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

15:3 And he walkee sins of his father, which he had done
before him: and his heart was  with the LORD his God, as
the heart of David his father.

15:4 Nevert David’s sake did the LORD his God give him a
lamp in Jerusalem, to  son after him, and to establish
Jerusalem: 15:5 Because David did tha right in the eyes of
the LORD, and turned not aside from any thing thnded him
all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah th

15:6 And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of

15:7 Now the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are thtten in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And
there waen Abijam and Jeroboam.

15:8 And Abijam slept with his fathers; and t him in the
city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead.

15:9e twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned Asa
over Judah.

1forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his
mother’s name wthe daughter of Abishalom.

15:11 And Asa did that which was right in  the LORD, as did
David his father.

15:12 And he took away the sodomi the land, and removed all
the idols that his fathers had made.

15:13 his mother, even her he removed from being
queen, because she had mad in a grove; and Asa destroyed her
idol, and burnt it by the brook Kid But the high places were not removed: nevertheless Asa’s heart
was ith the LORD all his days.

15:15 And he brought in the things which h had dedicated, and
the things which himself had dedicated, into the hhe LORD,
silver, and gold, and vessels.

15:16 And there was war betwed Baasha king of Israel all
their days.

15:17 And Baasha king of Israagainst Judah, and built
Ramah, that he might not suffer any to go outn to Asa king
of Judah.

15:18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gon the
treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the kine, and delivered them into the hand of his servants: and king Asa
sentnhadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of
Syria, that dwascus, saying, 15:19 There is a league between
me and thee, and betweer and thy father: behold, I have sent
unto thee a present of silver an and break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart f:20 So Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
the ich he had against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon,
and Dan, and achah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of
Naphtali.

15:21 And itss, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off
building of Ramah, andTirzah.

15:22 Then king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah;exempted: and they took away the stones of Ramah, and the timber
thereth Baasha had builded; and king Asa built with them
Geba of Benjamin, 

15:23 The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all th and the cities which he built, are they not written in the
book of thes of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless in the time
of his old age he wd in his feet.

15:24 And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried whers
in the city of David his father: and Jehoshaphat his son reigned d.

15:25 And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in  year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years.

15:26  evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of his father, asin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

15:27 And Baasha the son of Ahijhouse of Issachar,
conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbh
belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel laid siege to


15:28 Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay higned in his stead.

15:29 And it came to pass, when he reigned, that h the
house of Jeroboam; he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, untdestroyed him, according unto the saying of the LORD, which he
spake bAhijah the Shilonite: 15:30 Because of the sins
of Jeroboam which he sed, and which he made Israel sin, by his
provocation wherewith he provD God of Israel to anger.

15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, an he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kinl?
15:32 And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all
t

15:33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of reign over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty and four years.

15:34 And hen the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of Jeroboam, and in hisith he made Israel to sin.

16:1 Then the word of the LORD came to Jehf Hanani against
Baasha, saying, 16:2 Forasmuch as I exalted thee out , and
made thee prince over my people Israel; and thou hast walked in Jeroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me
to anger sins; 16:3 Behold, I will take away the posterity
of Baasha, and theof his house; and will make thy house
like the house of Jeroboam the sof Nebat.

16:4 Him that dieth of Baasha in the city shall the dogs eathat dieth of his in the fields shall the fowls of the air eat.

16:5 t of the acts of Baasha, and what he did, and his
might, are they not  the book of the chronicles of the kings
of Israel?  16:6 So Baasha slis fathers, and was buried in
Tirzah: and Elah his son reigned in his 7 And also by the hand of the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani came
the e LORD against Baasha, and against his house, even for
all the evil thn the sight of the LORD, in provoking him to
anger with the work of hiin being like the house of Jeroboam;
and because he killed him.

16:8 ty and sixth year of Asa king of Judah began Elah the
son of Baasha to Israel in Tirzah, two years.

16:9 And his servant Zimri, captain of ariots, conspired
against him, as he was in Tirzah, drinking himself de house
of Arza steward of his house in Tirzah.

16:10 And Zimri went e him, and killed him, in the twenty
and seventh year of Asa king of Jreigned in his stead.

16:11 And it came to pass, when he began to rei as he sat
on his throne, that he slew all the house of Baasha: he left
one that pisseth against a wall, neither of his kinsfolks, nor of hi
16:12 Thus did Zimri destroy all the house of Baasha, according to ththe LORD, which he spake against Baasha by Jehu the prophet.

16:13 Foins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, by
which they sinned, andhey made Israel to sin, in provoking
the LORD God of Israel to anger wanities.

16:14 Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did,not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
16:1enty and seventh year of Asa king of Judah did Zimri
reign seven days And the people were encamped against
Gibbethon, which belonged to the es.

16:16 And the people that were encamped heard say, Zimri hath
con hath also slain the king: wherefore all Israel made
Omri, the captainst, king over Israel that day in the camp.

16:17 And Omri went up fron, and all Israel with him, and
they besieged Tirzah.

16:18 And it ca when Zimri saw that the city was taken,
that he went into the palace ’s house, and burnt the king’s
house over him with fire, and died. his sins which he sinned in doing evil in the sight of the
LORD, in we way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did,
to make Israel to sin. the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his treason that he
wrought, are titten in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel?  16:21 Thepeople of Israel divided into
two parts: half of the people followed Ton of Ginath, to
make him king; and half followed Omri.

16:22 But thet followed Omri prevailed against the people
that followed Tibni the sh: so Tibni died, and Omri
reigned.

16:23 In the thirty and first yeang of Judah began Omri to
reign over Israel, twelve years: six years rin Tirzah.

16:24 And he bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two tallver, and built on the hill, and called the name of the city which
he er the name of Shemer, owner of the hill, Samaria.

16:25 But Omri wroin the eyes of the LORD, and did worse
than all that were before him.
he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and
in his sin ith he made Israel to sin, to provoke the LORD God of
Israel to anger  vanities.

16:27 Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and hat he shewed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of
th Israel?  16:28 So Omri slept with his fathers, and was
buried in Samaab his son reigned in his stead.

16:29 And in the thirty and eighth y king of Judah began
Ahab the son of Omri to reign over Israel: and Ahof Omri
reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty and two years.

16:30 An son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD above
all that were bef16:31 And it came to pass, as if it had been a light thing for him to
 sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took to wife
Jezebel the d Ethbaal king of the Zidonians, and went and
served Baal, and worshipp32 And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which
he h Samaria.

16:33 And Ahab made a grove; and Ahab did more to provoke td
of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before himn his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Jericho: he laid the
foundation Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates
thereof in his youngest sccording to the word of the LORD,
which he spake by Joshua the son of And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead,
said uns the LORD God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand,
there shall not rain these years, but according to my word.

17:2 And the word of the nto him, saying, 17:3 Get thee
hence, and turn thee eastward, and hidey the brook Cherith,
that is before Jordan.

17:4 And it shall be, thaalt drink of the brook; and I have
commanded the ravens to feed thee t So he went and did according unto the word of the LORD: for he
went a the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

17:6 And the ravens brough and flesh in the morning, and
bread and flesh in the evening; and he e brook.

17:7 And it came to pass after a while, that the brook driede there had been no rain in the land.

17:8 And the word of the LORD c, saying, 17:9 Arise, get
thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, there: behold,
I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee.
e arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate
of the citthe widow woman was there gathering of sticks:
and he called to her, aetch me, I pray thee, a little water
in a vessel, that I may drink.

1 she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said,
Bring me, I prmorsel of bread in thine hand.

17:12 And she said, As the LORD thy GoI have not a cake, but
an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oise: and,
behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dressand my son, that we may eat it, and die.

17:13 And Elijah said unto hot; go and do as thou hast said:
but make me thereof a little cake firing it unto me, and
after make for thee and for thy son.

17:14 For thhe LORD God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall
not waste, neither shase of oil fail, until the day that the
LORD sendeth rain upon the eartAnd she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she,
and hhouse, did eat many days.

17:16 And the barrel of meal wasted not, nethe cruse of oil
fail, according to the word of the LORD, which he spaah.

17:17 And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so
sore, that o breath left in him.

17:18 And she said unto Elijah, What have I to ee, O thou
man of God? art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrto slay my son?  17:19 And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he
tt of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he
abode, and la his own bed.

17:20 And he cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my Gou
also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying he:21 And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and
cried unt and said, O LORD my God, I pray thee, let this
child’s soul come in.

17:22 And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the
cinto him again, and he revived.

17:23 And Elijah took the child, and m down out of the
chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mjah
said, See, thy son liveth.

17:24 And the woman said to Elijah, Noy this I know that thou art a
man of God, and that the word of the LORouth is truth.

18:1 And it came to pass after many days, that the worLORD
came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, shew thyself unto A will send rain upon the earth.

18:2 And Elijah went to shew himself And there was a sore
famine in Samaria.

18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah,the governor of his house.
(Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly: 18:4  so, when Jezebel
cut off the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took 
prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread an 18:5 And Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go into the land, unto all
fountains and unto all brooks: peradventure we may find
grass to save the horses alive, that we lose not all the
beasts.

18:6 So they divided the lathem to pass throughout it: Ahab
went one way by himself, and Obadiah r way by himself.

18:7 And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Elijah d he
knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Art thou that my lord
E18:8 And he answered him, I am: go, tell thy lord, Behold,
Elijah is h And he said, What have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy
serva hand of Ahab, to slay me?  18:10 As the LORD thy God
liveth, there isor kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent
to seek thee: and when they  not there; he took an oath of
the kingdom and nation, that they found

18:11 And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is hered it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone from thee, that
the SpirLORD shall carry thee whither I know not; and so
when I come and tell he cannot find thee, he shall slay me:
but I thy servant fear the LORDouth.

18:13 Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the
f the LORD, how I hid an hundred men of the LORD’s prophets
by fifty, and fed them with bread and water?  18:14 And now
thou sayest, Go, td, Behold, Elijah is here: and he shall
slay me.

18:15 And Elijah saiLORD of hosts liveth, before whom I
stand, I will surely shew myself u day.

18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him: and Ahab wentijah.

18:17 And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab saidArt thou he that troubleth Israel?  18:18 And he answered, I have
not rael; but thou, and thy father’s house, in that ye have
forsaken theents of the LORD, and thou hast followed Baalim.

18:19 Now therefore gather to me all Israel unto mount
Carmel, and the prophets of Baal foand fifty, and the
prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at J table.

18:20 So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gatheophets together unto mount Carmel.

18:21 And Elijah came unto all thend said, How long halt ye
between two opinions? if the LORD be God, fout if Baal,
then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.

n said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a
prophet of the Baal’s prophets are four hundred and fifty
men.

18:23 Let them thee us two bullocks; and let them choose one
bullock for themselves, andno fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on
wood,and put no fire under: 18:24 And call ye on the name of your
gods, and I will call on the name of the LORD: and the God that
answereth by fibe God. And all the people answered and
said, It is well spoken.

18:2ah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one
bullock for yourselvss it first; for ye are many; and call
on the name of your gods, but punder.

18:26 And they took the bullock which was given them, and theyt, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon,
sayingear us. But there was no voice, nor any that
answered. And they leapedtar which was made.

18:27 And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah moand said,
Cry aloud: for he is a god; either he is talking, or he is pr he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be
awaked. they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with
knives atill the blood gushed out upon them.

18:29 And it came to pass, when  past, and they prophesied
until the time of the offering of the eveniice, that there
was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that reg:30 And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all
th came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD
that was br.

18:31 And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of the LORD came,
saying, Israe thy name: 18:32 And with the stones he built
an altar in the name of  and he made a trench about the
altar, as great as would contain two mof seed.

18:33 And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pd
laid him on the wood, and said, Fill four barrels with water, and pothe burnt sacrifice, and on the wood.

18:34 And he said, Do it the se And they did it the second
time.

And he said, Do it the third time. d it the third time.

18:35 And the water ran round about the altar; aed the
trench also with water.

18:36 And it came to pass at the time ering of the evening
sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near, andRD God of
Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day thatGod in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all
thegs at thy word.

18:37 Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people may thou
art the LORD God, and that thou hast turned their heart back agai Then the fire of the LORD fell, and consumed the burnt
sacrifice, and and the stones, and the dust, and licked up
the water that was in the And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and
they saORD, he is the God; the LORD, he is the God.

18:40 And Elijah said unake the prophets of Baal; let not
one of them escape. And they took thlijah brought them down
to the brook Kishon, and slew them there.

18:jah said unto Ahab, Get thee up, eat and drink; for there
is a sound oce of rain.

18:42 So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah wene
top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his
en his knees, 18:43 And said to his servant, Go up now, look
toward th he went up, and looked, and said, There is
nothing. And he said, Go an times.

18:44 And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said,there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man’s hand. And Go up, say unto Ahab, Prepare thy chariot, and get thee down
that the hee not.

18:45 And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heavenk
with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, andezreel.

18:46 And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah; and he girded us, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.

19:1 And Ahab toldll that Elijah had done, and withal how he
had slain all the prophets ord.

19:2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let to to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of
one of torrow about this time.

19:3 And when he saw that, he arose, and went e, and came
to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his serva
19:4 But he himself went a day’s journey into the wilderness, and ct down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that
he migh said, It is enough; now, O LORD, take away my life;
for I am not bettfathers.

19:5 And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, t touched him, and said unto him, Arise and eat.

19:6 And he looked, a, there was a cake baken on the coals,
and a cruse of water at his headid eat and drink, and laid
him down again.

19:7 And the angel of the again the second time, and touched
him, and said, Arise and eat; becarney is too great for
thee.

19:8 And he arose, and did eat and drink,t in the strength of
that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb of God.

19:9 And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and, e word of the LORD came to him, and he said unto him, What doest
thou h?  19:10 And he said, I have been very jealous for
the LORD God of hohe children of Israel have forsaken thy
covenant, thrown down thine alslain thy prophets with the
sword; and I, even I only, am left; and thlife, to take it
away.

19:11 And he said, Go forth, and stand upon thore the LORD.

And, behold, the LORD passed by, and a great and strong the
mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the LORD; but thet in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the LORD
was not  the earthquake: 19:12 And after the earthquake a fire; but
the LORD whe fire: and after the fire a still small voice.

19:13 And it was so,h heard it, that he wrapped his face in
his mantle, and went out, and he entering in of the cave.
And, behold, there came a voice unto him, What doest thou
here, Elijah?  19:14 And he said, I have been very jeae
LORD God of hosts: because the children of Israel have forsaken thy
hrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the
sword; and I,only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it
away.

19:15 And the unto him, Go, return on thy way to the
wilderness of Damascus: and wheest, anoint Hazael to be king
over Syria: 19:16 And Jehu the son of Nithou anoint to be
king over Israel: and Elisha the son of Shaphat of A shalt
thou anoint to be prophet in thy room.

19:17 And it shall comethat him that escapeth the sword of
Hazael shall Jehu slay: and him th from the sword of Jehu
shall Elisha slay.

19:18 Yet I have left me sand in Israel, all the knees which
have not bowed unto Baal, and everyh hath not kissed him.

19:19 So he departed thence, and found Elisha f Shaphat, who
was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and hewelfth: and Elijah passed by him, and cast his mantle upon him.

19:20t the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me, I
pray thee, kiss and my mother, and then I will follow thee.
And he said unto him, Go b for what have I done to thee?
19:21 And he returned back from him, anoke of oxen, and slew
them, and boiled their flesh with the instrumentxen, and
gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose, and welijah, and ministered unto him.

20:1 And Benhadad the king of Syria gall his host together:
and there were thirty and two kings with him, a, and
chariots; and he went up and besieged Samaria, and warred agains2 And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel into the city, and
sai Thus saith Benhadad, 20:3 Thy silver and thy gold is
mine; thy wives hy children, even the goodliest, are mine.

20:4 And the king of Israe and said, My lord, O king,
according to thy saying, I am thine, and ahave.

20:5 And the messengers came again, and said, Thus speaketh Benng, Although I have sent unto thee, saying, Thou shalt deliver me
thy d thy gold, and thy wives, and thy children; 20:6 Yet I
will send my snto thee to morrow about this time, and they
shall search thine house,uses of thy servants; and it shall
be, that whatsoever is pleasant in  they shall put it in
their hand, and take it away.

20:7 Then the kinl called all the elders of the land, and
said, Mark, I pray you, and ss man seeketh mischief: for he
sent unto me for my wives, and for my cnd for my silver, and
for my gold; and I denied him not.

20:8 And all and all the people said unto him, Hearken not
unto him, nor consent.
efore he said unto the messengers of Benhadad, Tell my lord
the king, hat thou didst send for to thy servant at the first I
will do: but thimay not do. And the messengers departed, and
brought him word again.

Benhadad sent unto him, and said, The gods do so unto me,
and more alsust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for
all the people that foll0:11 And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him
t on his harness boast himself as he that putteth it off.

20:12 And itass, when Ben-hadad heard this message, as he
was drinking, he and thehe pavilions, that he said unto his
servants, Set yourselves in array. set themselves in array
against the city.

20:13 And, behold, there cophet unto Ahab king of Israel,
saying, Thus saith the LORD, Hast thouthis great multitude?
behold, I will deliver it into thine hand this du shalt
know that I am the LORD.

20:14 And Ahab said, By whom? And hes saith the LORD, Even
by the young men of the princes of the province said, Who
shall order the battle? And he answered, Thou.

20:15 Then  the young men of the princes of the provinces,
and they were two hundrty two: and after them he numbered
all the people, even all the childael, being seven thousand.

20:16 And they went out at noon. But Benharinking himself
drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty akings
that helped him.

20:17 And the young men of the princes of the ent out
first; and Benhadad sent out, and they told him, saying, Thereome out of Samaria.

20:18 And he said, Whether they be come out for p them
alive; or whether they be come out for war, take them alive.

20se young men of the princes of the provinces came out of
the city, andhich followed them.

20:20 And they slew every one his man: and the Sy and
Israel pursued them: and Benhadad the king of Syria escaped on anh the horsemen.

20:21 And the king of Israel went out, and smote the 
chariots, and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter.

20:22 And theme to the king of Israel, and said unto him,
Go, strengthen thyself, ad see what thou doest: for at the
return of the year the king of Syria up against thee.

20:23 And the servants of the king of Syria said uneir gods
are gods of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we;  fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger
than24 And do this thing, Take the kings away, every man out of his
place,aptains in their rooms: 20:25 And number thee an army,
like the army tast lost, horse for horse, and chariot for
chariot: and we will fight hem in the plain, and surely we
shall be stronger than they. And he heo their voice, and
did so.

20:26 And it came to pass at the return of that Benhadad
numbered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight agl.

20:27 And the children of Israel were numbered, and were all present against them: and the children of Israel pitched before them
like tflocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country.

20:28 And there cof God, and spake unto the king of Israel,
and said, Thus saith the LO the Syrians have said, The LORD
is God of the hills, but he is not Govalleys, therefore will
I deliver all this great multitude into thine e shall know
that I am the LORD.

20:29 And they pitched one over agaier seven days. And so
it was, that in the seventh day the battle was j the
children of Israel slew of the Syrians an hundred thousand footmeay.

20:30 But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and there a wall twenty and seven thousand of the men that were left. And Benhadad
fleinto the city, into an inner chamber.

20:31 And his servants said untold now, we have heard that
the kings of the house of Israel are merci let us, I pray
thee, put sackcloth on our loins, and ropes upon our h go out
to the king of Israel: peradventure he will save thy life.

20y girded sackcloth on their loins, and put ropes on their
heads, and cking of Israel, and said, Thy servant Benhadad
saith, I pray thee, let And he said, Is he yet alive? he is
my brother.

20:33 Now the men diy observe whether any thing would come
from him, and did hastily catchhey said, Thy brother
Benhadad. Then he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Bme forth to
him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot.

20:34hadad said unto him, The cities, which my father took
from thy father,restore; and thou shalt make streets for thee
in Damascus, as my fatheSamaria. Then said Ahab, I will send
thee away with this covenant. So covenant with him, and sent
him away.

20:35 And a certain man of the e prophets said unto his
neighbour in the word of the LORD, Smite me, e. And the man
refused to smite him.

20:36 Then said he unto him, Bechast not obeyed the voice of
the LORD, behold, as soon as thou art depme, a lion shall
slay thee.

And as soon as he was departed from him, nd him, and slew
him.

20:37 Then he found another man, and said, Smitray thee. And
the man smote him, so that in smiting he wounded him.

2he prophet departed, and waited for the king by the way, and
disguisedth ashes upon his face.

20:39 And as the king passed by, he cried unt and he said,
Thy servant went out into the midst of the battle; and,  man
turned aside, and brought a man unto me, and said, Keep this man: means he be missing, then shall thy life be for his life, or
else tho a talent of silver.

20:40 And as thy servant was busy here and there And the
king of Israel said unto him, So shall thy judgment be; thyseecided it.

20:41 And he hasted, and took the ashes away from his facehe
king of Israel discerned him that he was of the prophets.

20:42 Annto him, Thus saith the LORD, Because thou hast let
go out of thy handm I appointed to utter destruction,
therefore thy life shall go for hid thy people for his
people.

20:43 And the king of Israel went to hisy and displeased,
and came to Samaria.

21:1 And it came to pass aftergs, that Naboth the
Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hpalace of
Ahab king of Samaria.

21:2 And Ahab spake unto Naboth, sayie thy vineyard, that I
may have it for a garden of herbs, because it io my house:
and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it; or,em
good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money.

21:3 And d to Ahab, The LORD forbid it me, that I should
give the inheritance oo thee.

21:4 And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased becausich Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him: for he had said, I
will nnd he laid him down
upon his bed, and turned away his face, and would  to him, and said unto him, Why is thy
spirit so sad, that thou eatest  21:6 And he said unto her,
Because I spake unto Naboth the Jezreelit unto him, Give me
thy vineyard for money; or else, if it please thee,e thee
another vineyard for it: and he answered, I will not give thee .

21:7 And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the
ksrael? arise, and eat bread, and let thine heart be merry:
I will giveineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.

21:8 So she wrote letters in Ahaband sealed them with his
seal, and sent the letters unto the elders anles that were
in his city, dwelling with Naboth.

21:9 And she wrote irs, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set
Naboth on high among the people:  set two men, sons of
Belial, before him, to bear witness against him,hou didst
blaspheme God and the king. And then carry him out, and ston he may die.

21:11 And the men of his city, even the elders and the nere
the inhabitants in his city, did as Jezebel had sent unto them, an written in the letters which she had sent unto them.

21:12 They procfast, and set Naboth on high among the people.

21:13 And there came ichildren of Belial, and sat before
him: and the men of Belial witnessehim, even against Naboth,
in the presence of the people, saying, Nabotpheme God and
the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city, ad him
with stones, that he died.

21:14 Then they sent to Jezebel, sayh is stoned, and is
dead.

21:15 And it came to pass, when Jezebel heaoth was stoned,
and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take pf the
vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give thee: for Naboth is not alive, but dead.

21:16 And it came to pass, when  that Naboth was dead, that
Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Jezreelite, to
take possession of it.

21:17 And the word of the LORDe, saying,
21:18 Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, which is rd of Naboth, whither he is gone down to
possess it.

21:19 And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith the LORD, Hast
thou killed, and also taken possession? And thou shalt speak unto him,
saying, Thus sth the LORD, In the place where dogs licked the blood
of Naboth shall thy blood, even thine.

21:20 And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou founde enemy? And
he answered, I have found thee: because thou hast sold thrk
evil in the sight of the LORD.

21:21 Behold, I will bring evil upod will take away thy
posterity, and will cut off from Ahab him that pist the
wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel, 21:22 And wiline house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the
hoha the son of Ahijah, for the provocation wherewith thou
hast provokeder, and made Israel to sin.

21:23 And of Jezebel also spake the LORD,e dogs shall eat
Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.

21:24 Him that diethn the city the dogs shall eat; and him
that dieth in the field shall tf the air eat.

21:25 But there was none like unto Ahab, which did selo
work wickedness in the sight of the LORD, whom Jezebel his wife
stirAnd he did very abominably in following idols, according to all
things did the Amorites, whom the LORD cast out before the children
of IsraeAnd it came to pass, when Ahab heard those words, that he rent
his clod put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted, and lay in
sackcloth, and y.

21:28 And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, sayingest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? because he
humbleth hims me, I will not bring the evil in his days: but
in his son’s days wi the evil upon his house.

22:1 And they continued three years withouten Syria and
Israel.

22:2 And it came to pass in the third year, thatt the king
of Judah came down to the king of Israel.

22:3 And the kin said unto his servants, Know ye that
Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we and take it not out of the
hand of the king of Syria?  22:4 And he saoshaphat, Wilt
thou go with me to battle to Ramothgilead? And Jehoshapo the
king of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, my ho horses.

22:5 And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, e, at the word of the LORD to day.

22:6 Then the king of Israel gathephets together, about
four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I goamothgilead
to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for tll deliver it into the hand of the king.

22:7 And Jehoshaphat said, It here a prophet of the LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?  2e king of Israel
said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Micaiah  whom we may enquire of the LORD: but I hate him; for he doth not
proponcerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not
the king say so.n the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Hasten
hither Micaia Imlah.

22:10 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Juda on his throne, having put on their robes, in a void place in the
entr gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied
before them.

22:11 ekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron: and he
said, Thus sRD, With these shalt thou push the Syrians,
until thou have consumed t And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to
Ramothgilead, anor the LORD shall deliver it into the
king’s hand.

22:13 And the met was gone to call Micaiah spake unto him,
saying, Behold now, the worophets declare good unto the
king with one mouth: let thy word, I prayike the word of
one of them, and speak that which is good.

22:14 And d, As the LORD liveth, what the LORD saith unto
me, that will I speak.he came to the king. And the king said unto him, Micaiah,
shall we go othgilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And
he answered him, Go, andfor the LORD shall deliver it into
the hand of the king.

22:16 And th unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee
that thou tell me nothin which is true in the name of the
LORD?  22:17 And he said, I saw all ttered upon the hills,
as sheep that have not a shepherd: and the LORDe have no
master: let them return every man to his house in peace.

22e king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell
thee that he woy no good concerning me, but evil?  22:19
And he said, Hear thou thereord of the LORD: I saw the LORD
sitting on his throne, and all the hosn standing by him on
his right hand and on his left.

22:20 And the LOo shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up
and fall at Ramothgilead? Andn this manner, and another
said on that manner.

22:21 And there came rit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will persuade him.

22:22  said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go
forth, and I will bepirit in the mouth of all his prophets.
And he said, Thou shalt persudrevail also: go forth, and
do so.

22:23 Now therefore, behold, the LO a lying spirit in the
mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hevil
concerning thee.

22:24 But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went nemote Micaiah
on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the e
to speak unto thee?  22:25 And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see , when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

22:26 Andf Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back
unto Amon the governor to Joash the king’s son; 22:27
And say, Thus saith the king, Put thellow in the prison, and feed
him with bread of affliction and with waiction, until I
come in peace.

22:28 And Micaiah said, If thou return peace, the LORD hath
not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people of you.

22:29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Juda Ramothgilead.

22:30 And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I e
myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And thsrael disguised himself, and went into the battle.

22:31 But the kingmmanded his thirty and two captains that
had rule over his chariots, st neither with small nor
great, save only with the king of Israel.

22came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw
Jehoshaphat, that Surely it is the king of Israel. And they
turned aside to fight agains Jehoshaphat cried out.

22:33 And it came to pass, when the captains riots perceived
that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned bsuing him.

22:34 And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote
Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the
is chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host;
for I am wo5 And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in
hisainst the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran
out of the woune midst of the chariot.

22:36 And there went a proclamation throughouabout the
going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and evhis own country.

22:37 So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; ried
the king in Samaria.

22:38 And one washed the chariot in the poo; and the dogs
licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; accorde
word of the LORD which he spake.

22:39 Now the rest of the acts of ll that he did, and the
ivory house which he made, and all the cities lt, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of:40 So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in
his2:41 And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the
fr of Ahab king of Israel.

22:42 Jehoshaphat was thirty and five yearshe began to
reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. her’s name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

22:43 And he walked iays of Asa his father; he turned not
aside from it, doing that which w the eyes of the LORD:
nevertheless the high places were not taken awapeople
offered and burnt incense yet in the high places.

22:44 And Jede peace with the king of Israel.

22:45 Now the rest of the acts of J and his might that he
shewed, and how he warred, are they not writtenk of the
chronicles of the kings of Judah?  22:46 And the remnant of t, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out
of the lanere was then no king in Edom: a deputy was king.

22:48 Jehoshaphat maTharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but
they went not; for the ships wet Eziongeber.

22:49 Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshapharvants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not.

ehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned
in his stead.

22:51 Ahan of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria
the seventeenth year ophat king of Judah, and reigned two
years over Israel.

22:52 And he dthe sight of the LORD, and walked in the way
of his father, and in the mother, and in the way of
Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel :53 For he served
Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the f
Israel, according to all that his father had done.




The Second Boings

Commonly Called:

The Fourth Book of the Kings


1:1 Then Moab rinst Israel after the death of Ahab.

1:2 And Ahaziah fell down throug in his upper chamber that
was in Samaria, and was sick: and he sent m and said unto
them, Go, enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron whethercover of this disease.

1:3 But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah t, Arise, go
up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say Is it not because there is not a God in Israel, that ye go to enquire
 the god of Ekron?  1:4 Now therefore thus saith the LORD,
Thou shalt n from that bed on which thou art gone up, but
shalt surely die. And Eeparted.

1:5 And when the messengers turned back unto him, he said uny are ye now turned back?  1:6 And they said unto him, There came a
mat us, and said unto us, Go, turn again unto the king that
sent you, ano him, Thus saith the LORD, Is it not because
there is not a God in Isthou sendest to enquire of
Baalzebub the god of Ekron? therefore thou ome down from
that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely diehe said unto them, What manner of man was he which came up to
meet youyou these words?  1:8 And they answered him, He was
an hairy man, and  girdle of leather about his loins. And
he said, It is Elijah the TishThen the king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty. And
he  him: and, behold, he sat on the top of an hill. And he
spake unto himof God, the king hath said, Come down.

1:10 And Elijah answered and scaptain of fifty, If I be a
man of God, then let fire come down from honsume thee and
thy fifty.

And there came down fire from heaven, and  and his fifty.

1:11 Again also he sent unto him another captain of fis
fifty.

And he answered and said unto him, O man of God, thus hath id, Come down quickly.

1:12 And Elijah answered and said unto them, In of God, let
fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifire of God came down from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.

1:1nt again a captain of the third fifty with his fifty.
And the third caifty went up, and came and fell on his knees
before Elijah, and besougsaid unto him, O man of God, I
pray thee, let my life, and the life of thy servants, be
precious in thy sight.

1:14 Behold, there came fireheaven, and burnt up the two
captains of the former fifties with theirherefore let my
life now be precious in thy sight.

1:15 And the angelsaid unto Elijah, Go down with him: be
not afraid of him. And he aroseown with him unto the king.

1:16 And he said unto him, Thus saith themuch as thou hast
sent messengers to enquire of Baalzebub the god of E not
because there is no God in Israel to enquire of his word? therefot not come down off that bed on which thou art gone up, but
shalt sure7 So he died according to the word of the LORD which Elijah had
spokenam reigned in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the son
of Jehosof Judah; because he had no son.

1:18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahahe did, are they not
written in the book of the chronicles of the king?  2:1 And
it came to pass, when the LORD would take up Elijah into heirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.

2:2 And Elijah saia, Tarry here, I pray thee; for the LORD
hath sent me to Bethel. And E unto him, As the LORD liveth,
and as thy soul liveth, I will not leavthey went down to
Bethel.

2:3 And the sons of the prophets that were me forth to
Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD willthy master from thy head to day? And he said, Yea, I know it; hold ye


2:4 And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee; for th sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the LORD liveth, and as
thy soulwill not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.

2:5 And the sons of thehat were at Jericho came to Elisha,
and said unto him, Knowest thou th will take away thy
master from thy head to day? And he answered, Yea, hold ye
your peace.

2:6 And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee the LORD
hath sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the LORD liveth, andl liveth, I will not leave thee. And they two went on.

2:7 And fifty ons of the prophets went, and stood to view
afar off: and they two ston.

2:8 And Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and smote and they were divided hither and thither, so that they two
went over nd.

2:9 And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah sasha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I be taken away from
thee. Asaid, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit
be upon me.

2:1d, Thou hast asked a hard thing: nevertheless, if thou
see me when I am thee, it shall be so unto thee; but if
not, it shall not be so.

2:1to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that,
behold, there appeara chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and
parted them both asunder; awent up by a whirlwind into
heaven.

2:12 And Elisha saw it, and he crher, my father, the
chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And h no more:
and he took hold of his own clothes, and rent them in two pi3 He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went
baod by the bank of Jordan; 2:14 And he took the mantle of
Elijah that f, and smote the waters, and said, Where is
the LORD God of Elijah? ando had smitten the waters, they
parted hither and thither: and Elisha w2:15 And when the sons of the prophets which were to view at Jericho
s said, The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they
came to meetwed themselves to the ground before him.

2:16 And they said unto him, there be with thy servants
fifty strong men; let them go, we pray the thy master: lest
peradventure the Spirit of the LORD hath taken him ut him
upon some mountain, or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall n:17 And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They
se fifty men; and they sought three days, but found him
not.

2:18 And came again to him, (for he tarried at Jericho,) he
said unto them, Didunto you, Go not?  2:19 And the men of
the city said unto Elisha, Behothee, the situation of this
city is pleasant, as my lord seeth: but thnaught, and the
ground barren.

2:20 And he said, Bring me a new cruselt therein. And they
brought it to him.

2:21 And he went forth unto tf the waters, and cast the
salt in there, and said, Thus saith the LORealed these
waters; there shall not be from thence any more death or b
2:22 So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the sayinghich he spake.

2:23 And he went up from thence unto Bethel: and as heup by
the way, there came forth little children out of the city, and mnd said unto him, Go up, thou bald head; go up, thou bald head.

2:24 d back, and looked on them, and cursed them in the
name of the LORD. Ae forth two she bears out of the wood,
and tare forty and two children2:25 And he went from thence to mount Carmel, and from thence he
returmaria.

3:1 Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve
yearse wrought evil in the sight of the LORD; but not like his
father, and her: for he put away the image of Baal that
his father had made.

3:3 s he cleaved unto the sins of Jeroboam the son of
Nebat, which made Is; he departed not therefrom.

3:4 And Mesha king of Moab was a sheepmaof Israel an hundred thousand lambs, and an hundred thousand
rams, wit pass, when Ahab was dead, that the king of Moab
rebelled against the king of Israel.

3:6 And king Jehoram went out of Samaria the same time, and numbered
all Israel.

3:7 And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat t Judah, saying, The
king of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou g against
Moab to battle? And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, 
as thy people, and my horses as thy horses.

3:8 And he said, Which we go up? And he answered, The way
through the wilderness of Edom.

3:9ng of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of
Edom: and th a compass of seven days’ journey: and there was
no water for the hofor the cattle that followed them.

3:10 And the king of Israel said,  the LORD hath called
these three kings together, to deliver them intoof Moab!
3:11 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of thet we may enquire of the LORD by him? And one of the king of
Israel’s answered and said, Here is Elisha the son of
Shaphat, which poured wa hands of Elijah.

3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the LORD is So the
king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down t3:13 And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do with
tthee to the prophets of thy father, and to the prophets of
thy mother. king of Israel said unto him, Nay: for the LORD hath called
these thrgether, to deliver them into the hand of Moab.

3:14 And Elisha said,  of hosts liveth, before whom I
stand, surely, were it not that I regace of Jehoshaphat
the king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nore thee.

3:15 But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when tl played, that the hand of the LORD came upon him.

3:16 And he said,  the LORD, Make this valley full of
ditches.

3:17 For thus saith the hall not see wind, neither shall ye
see rain; yet that valley shall beth water, that ye may
drink, both ye, and your cattle, and your beastsnd this is but a light thing in the sight of the LORD: he will
delivernto your hand.

3:19 And ye shall smite every fenced city, and every c and
shall fell every good tree, and stop all wells of water, and mar  piece of land with stones.

3:20 And it came to pass in the morning, eat offering was
offered, that, behold, there came water by the way ofhe
country was filled with water.

3:21 And when all the Moabites hearkings were come up to
fight against them, they gathered all that were ut on armour,
and upward, and stood in the border.

3:22 And they rosen the morning, and the sun shone upon the
water, and the Moabites saw n the other side as red as
blood: 3:23 And they said, This is blood: te surely slain,
and they have smitten one another: now therefore, Moabpoil.

3:24 And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rd smote the Moabites, so that they fled before them: but they went
for Moabites, even in their country.

3:25 And they beat down the cities,ry good piece of land
cast every man his stone, and filled it; and theall the
wells of water, and felled all the good trees: only in Kirharathey the stones thereof; howbeit the slingers went about it, and
smote And when the king of Moab saw that the battle was too sore for
him, h him seven hundred men that drew swords, to break
through even unto thdom: but they could not.

3:27 Then he took his eldest son that shouldned in his
stead, and offered him for a burnt offering upon the wall. as great indignation against Israel: and they departed from him, and
rtheir own land.

4:1 Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of tthe
prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant my husband is dead; and t that thy servant did fear the LORD: and the creditor is come
to takemy two sons to be bondmen.

4:2 And Elisha said unto her, What shall Iee? tell me, what
hast thou in the house? And she said, Thine handmaidny
thing in the house, save a pot of oil.

4:3 Then he said, Go, borrossels abroad of all thy
neighbours, even empty vessels; borrow not a fAnd when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and
upon and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou
shalt set aside tis full.

4:5 So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upo, who brought the vessels to her; and she poured out.

4:6 And it camewhen the vessels were full, that she said
unto her son, Bring me yet and he said unto her, There is
not a vessel more. And the oil stayed.

he came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell the
oil, and pa, and live thou and thy children of the rest.

4:8 And it fell on a dalisha passed to Shunem, where was a
great woman; and she constrained hbread. And so it was, that
as oft as he passed by, he turned in thitheread.

4:9 And she said unto her husband, Behold now, I perceive that n holy man of God, which passeth by us continually.

4:10 Let us make hamber, I pray thee, on the wall; and let
us set for him there a bed, e, and a stool, and a
candlestick: and it shall be, when he cometh to  shall turn
in thither.

4:11 And it fell on a day, that he came thithturned into
the chamber, and lay there.

4:12 And he said to Gehazi hiCall this Shunammite. And when
he had called her, she stood before himd he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been
careful fall this care; what is to be done for thee?
wouldest thou be spoken fong, or to the captain of the
host? And she answered, I dwell among mine.

4:14 And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi
answly she hath no child, and her husband is old.

4:15 And he said, Call hen he had called her, she stood in
the door.

4:16 And he said, Aboutcording to the time of life,
thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Ny lord, thou man of God,
do not lie unto thine handmaid.

4:17 And theceived, and bare a son at that season that
Elisha had said unto her, a the time of life.

4:18 And when the child was grown, it fell on a dawent out
to his father to the reapers.

4:19 And he said unto his fathd, my head. And he said to a
lad, Carry him to his mother.

4:20 And wd taken him, and brought him to his mother, he sat
on her knees till nhen died.

4:21 And she went up, and laid him on the bed of the man ofshut the door upon him, and went out.

4:22 And she called unto her husaid, Send me, I pray thee,
one of the young men, and one of the assesay run to the man
of God, and come again.

4:23 And he said, Whereforeu go to him to day? it is neither
new moon, nor sabbath. And she said,e well.

4:24 Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive,ward; slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee.

4:25 So she wenunto the man of God to mount Carmel. And it
came to pass, when the manw her afar off, that he said to
Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is mite: 4:26 Run now, I
pray thee, to meet her, and say unto her, Is it ee? is it
well with thy husband? is it well with the child? And she an
is well: 4:27 And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she
cay the feet: but Gehazi came near to thrust her away. And
the man of Got her alone; for her soul is vexed within her:
and the LORD hath hid iand hath not told me.

4:28 Then she said, Did I desire a son of my loot say, Do
not deceive me?  4:29 Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up thy ltake my staff in thine hand, and go thy way: if thou meet any man,
sal; and if any salute thee, answer him not again: and lay
my staff upon  the child.

4:30 And the mother of the child said, As the LORD livethhy
soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose, and followed her. Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon the
face of the there was neither voice, nor hearing. Wherefore
he went again to meetold him, saying, The child is not
awaked.

4:32 And when Elisha was co house, behold, the child was
dead, and laid upon his bed.

4:33 He weefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and
prayed unto the LORD.

4e went up, and lay upon the child, and put his mouth upon
his mouth, a upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands:
and stretched himself up; and the flesh of the child waxed
warm.

4:35 Then he returned, and whe house to and fro; and went
up, and stretched himself upon him: and  sneezed seven times,
and the child opened his eyes.

4:36 And he call and said, Call this Shunammite. So he
called her. And when she was co him, he said, Take up thy
son.

4:37 Then she went in, and fell at hind bowed herself to the
ground, and took up her son, and went out.

4:isha came again to Gilgal: and there was a dearth in the
land; and thee prophets were sitting before him: and he
said unto his servant, Set at pot, and seethe pottage for
the sons of the prophets.

4:39 And oneinto the field to gather herbs, and found a wild
vine, and gathered thgourds his lap full, and came and
shred them into the pot of pottage: new them not.

4:40 So they poured out for the men to eat. And it cames
they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and said, O thod, there is death in the pot. And they could not eat thereof.

4:41 B, Then bring meal. And he cast it into the pot; and he
said, Pour out ople, that they may eat. And there was no
harm in the pot.

4:42 And t man from Baalshalisha, and brought the man of
God bread of the firstfenty loaves of barley, and full ears
of corn in the husk thereof. And ive unto the people, that
they may eat.

4:43 And his servitor said, Wd I set this before an hundred
men?  He said again, Give the people, ty eat: for thus
saith the LORD, They shall eat, and shall leave thereoo he set it before them, and they did eat, and left thereof,
accordingrd of the LORD.

5:1 Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Sygreat
man with his master, and honourable, because by him the LORD hadiverance unto Syria: he was also a mighty man in valour, but he was
a nd the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought away
captiveof the land of Israel a little maid; and she waited on
Naaman’s wife she said unto her mistress, Would God my lord were with the
prophet t Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy.

5:4 And one went i his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the
maid that is of the land of 5 And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter
untoof Israel. And he departed, and took with him ten
talents of silver, ausand pieces of gold, and ten changes of
raiment.

5:6 And he brought to the king of Israel, saying, Now when
this letter is come unto thee,have therewith sent Naaman my
servant to thee, that thou mayest recoveis leprosy.

5:7 And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had reader,
that he rent his clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to make
 this man doth send unto me to recover a man of his
leprosy? whereforeI pray you, and see how he seeketh a
quarrel against me.

5:8 And it wn Elisha the man of God had heard that the king
of Israel had rent histhat he sent to the king, saying,
Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothescome now to me, and he
shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.

man came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at
the door oe of Elisha.

5:10 And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go anJordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou
sean.

5:11 But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I thwill surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of the
LORand strike his hand over the place, and recover the
leper.

5:12 Are nand Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all
the waters of Israel? wash in them, and be clean? So he
turned and went away in a rage.

5:servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My
father, if the prbid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou
not have done it? how muchn, when he saith to thee, Wash,
and be clean?  5:14 Then went he down,ed himself seven times
in Jordan, according to the saying of the man ohis flesh
came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was:15 And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and
camood before him: and he said, Behold, now I know that there
is no God iearth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee,
take a blessing of t

5:16 But he said, As the LORD liveth, before whom I stand, I will
re. And he urged him to take it; but he refused.

5:17 And Naaman said, e not then, I pray thee, be given to
thy servant two mules’ burden oor thy servant will
henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifther gods,
but unto the LORD.

5:18 In this thing the LORD pardon thy at when my master
goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, andh on my
hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I bow down the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon thy servant in this thing.

5:19id unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a
little way.

5:20  the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold,
my master hath spn this Syrian, in not receiving at his
hands that which he brought: bu LORD liveth, I will run after
him, and take somewhat of him.

5:21 Sollowed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running
after him, he ligfrom the chariot to meet him, and said, Is
all well?  5:22 And he saidll. My master hath sent me,
saying, Behold, even now there be come to unt Ephraim two
young men of the sons of the prophets: give them, I pra
talent of silver, and two changes of garments.

5:23 And Naaman saidnt, take two talents. And he urged him,
and bound two talents of silveags, with two changes of
garments, and laid them upon two of his servathey bare them
before him.

5:24 And when he came to the tower, he toom their hand, and
bestowed them in the house: and he let the men go, aarted.

5:25 But he went in, and stood before his master. And Elisha sim, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no
whithAnd he said unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the man
turnrom his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive
money, and to rents, and oliveyards, and vineyards, and
sheep, and oxen, and menservannd maidservants?  5:27 The leprosy
therefore of Naaman shall cleave unnd unto thy seed for
ever. And he went out from his presence a leper a as snow.

6:1 And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold nace where we dwell with thee is too strait for us.

6:2 Let us go, we unto Jordan, and take thence every man a
beam, and let us make us a pl where we may dwell. And he
answered, Go ye.

6:3 And one said, Be connd go with thy servants.
And he answered, I will go.

6:4 So he went wAnd when they came to Jordan, they cut down
wood.

6:5 But as one was beam, the axe head fell into the water:
and he cried, and said, Alas, r it was borrowed.

6:6 And the man of God said, Where fell it? And hem the
place.

And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and theswim.

6:7 Therefore said he, Take it up to thee. And he put out his hok it.

6:8 Then the king of Syria warred against Israel, and took cous servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.

6:9 Anf God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware
that thou pass not ce; for thither the Syrians are come
down.

6:10 And the king of Israehe place which the man of God
told him and warned him of, and saved hie, not once nor
twice.

6:11 Therefore the heart of the king of Syria oubled for
this thing; and he called his servants, and said unto them,ot shew me which of us is for the king of Israel?  6:12 And one of
hissaid, None, my lord, O king: but Elisha, the prophet that
is in Israelthe king of Israel the words that thou speakest
in thy bedchamber.

6:said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetch
him.

And it wim, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.

6:14 Therefore sent he thither h chariots, and a great host:
and they came by night, and compassed the.

6:15 And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gobehold, an host compassed the city both with horses and
chariots. And t said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we
do?  6:16 And he answert: for they that be with us are more
than they that be with them.

6:1a prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his eyes,
that he may see.RD opened the eyes of the young man; and he
saw: and, behold, the mounll of horses and chariots of fire
round about Elisha.

6:18 And when town to him, Elisha prayed unto the LORD, and
said, Smite this people,  with blindness. And he smote
them with blindness according to the wora.

6:19 And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is th: follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. But
he led maria.

6:20 And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, thaid, LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. And
the LORDeir eyes, and they saw; and, behold, they were in
the midst of Samariad the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, My
father, she them? shall I smite them?  6:22 And he answered,
Thou shalt not smitldest thou smite those whom thou hast
taken captive with thy sword andthem, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.

6:23 And hrovision for them: and when they had eaten
and drunk, he sent them awaeir master. So the
bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israeler this, that Benhadad king of Syria
gathered all his host, and went ueged Samaria.

6:25 And there was a great famine in Samaria: and, behosieged it, until an ass’s head was sold for fourscore pieces of
silv fourth part of a cab of dove’s dung for five pieces of
silver.

6:2the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there
cried a woman uaying, Help, my lord, O king.

6:27 And he said, If the LORD do not hehence shall I help
thee?  out of the barnfloor, or out of the winepresd the
king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This wom me, Give thy son, that we may eat him to day, and we will
eat my son 
6:29 So we boiled my son, and did eat him: and I said unto her on the Give thy son, that we may eat him: and she hath hid her son.

6:30 Anto pass, when the king heard the words of the woman,
that he rent his nd he passed by upon the wall, and the
people looked, and, behold, he thin upon his flesh.

6:31 Then he said, God do so and more also to meif the head of
Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.
Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him; and the
king senom before him: but ere the messenger came to him, he
said to the elderhow this son of a murderer hath sent to
take away mine head? look, whenger cometh, shut the door,
and hold him fast at the door: is not the is master’s feet
behind him?  6:33 And while he yet talked with themhe
messenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of  what should I wait for the LORD any longer?  7:1 Then Elisha
said, Heword of the LORD; Thus saith the LORD, To morrow
about this time shalle of fine flour be sold for a shekel,
and two measures of barley for ain the gate of Samaria.

7:2 Then a lord on whose hand the king leanedthe man of God,
and said, Behold, if the LORD would make windows in heht this
thing be?  And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine ehalt not eat thereof.

7:3 And there were four leprous men at the ente of the gate:
and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we df we
say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city,all die there: and if we sit still here, we die also. Now
therefore cohe host of the Syrians: if they
save us alive, we shall live; and if t, we shall but die.

7:5 And they rose up in the twilight, to go unto  the
Syrians: and when they were come to the uttermost part of the cam behold, there was no man there.

7:6 For the LORD had made the host ons to hear a noise of
chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise host: and
they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come
upoWherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their
tents, arses, and their asses, even the camp as it was, and
fled for their lif when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they
went int, and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver,
and gold, and rawent and hid it; and came again, and
entered into another tent, and ca also, and went and hid
it.

7:9 Then they said one to another, We do his day is a day
of good tidings, and we hold our peace: if we tarry ting
light, some mischief will come upon us: now therefore come, that wd tell the king’s household.

7:10 So they came and called unto the he city: and they
told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrianld,
there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, and, and the tents as they were.

7:11 And he called the porters; and theo the king’s house
within.

7:12 And the king arose in the night, an his servants, I
will now shew you what the Syrians have done to us. Tat we
be hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themse field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall catch
them at into the city.

7:13 And one of his servants answered and said, Let  I pray
thee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the ci, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are left in it:
behold,y are even as all the multitude of the Israelites
that are consumed:) send and see.

7:14 They took therefore two chariot horses; and the kiter
the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see.

7:15 And they went anto Jordan: and, lo, all the way was
full of garments and vessels, whins had cast away in their
haste. And the messengers returned, and told7:16 And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. Soof fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of
barley for a ording to the word of the LORD.

7:17 And the king appointed the lord nd he leaned to have
the charge of the gate: and the people trode upongate, and
he died, as the man of God had said, who spake when the kingo him.

7:18 And it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the k, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine
flour forhall be to morrow about this time in the gate of
Samaria: 7:19 And thaered the man of God, and said, Now,
behold, if the LORD should make wiven, might such a thing
be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it witeyes, but shalt
not eat thereof.

7:20 And so it fell out unto him: foe trode upon him in the
gate, and he died.

8:1 Then spake Elisha unto whose son he had restored to
life, saying, Arise, and go thou and thild, and sojourn
wheresoever thou canst sojourn: for the LORD hath callamine;
and it shall also come upon the land seven years.

8:2 And the , and did after the saying of the man of God:
and she went with her hond sojourned in the land of the
Philistines seven years.

8:3 And it cs at the seven years’ end, that the woman
returned out of the land ostines: and she went forth to cry
unto the king for her house and for 
8:4 And the king talked with Gehazi the servant of the man of God,
sae, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath
done.

8:5 And iss, as he was telling the king how he had
restored a dead body to lifeold, the woman, whose son he
had restored to life, cried to the king fse and for her
land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the wom is
her son, whom Elisha restored to life.

8:6 And when the king aske, she told him. So the king
appointed unto her a certain officer, sayie all that was
hers, and all the fruits of the field since the day tha the
land, even until now.

8:7 And Elisha came to Damascus; and Benhag of Syria was
sick; and it was told him, saying, The man of God is co
8:8 And the king said unto Hazael, Take a present in thine hand, and
 man of God, and enquire of the LORD by him, saying, Shall
I recover oase?  8:9 So Hazael went to meet him, and took a
present with him, evegood thing of Damascus, forty camels’
burden, and came and stood befd said, Thy son Benhadad king
of Syria hath sent me to thee, saying, Sver of this
disease?  8:10 And Elisha said unto him, Go, say unto him,t
certainly recover: howbeit the LORD hath shewed me that he shall
surly die.

8:11 And he settled his countenance stedfastly, until he was ashamed:
and the man of God wept.

8:12 And Hazael said, Why weepeth md he answered, Because I
know the evil that thou wilt do unto the chilael: their
strong holds wilt thou set on fire, and their young men wil
with the sword, and wilt dash their children, and rip up their women

8:13 And Hazael said, But what, is thy servant a dog, that he should
t thing? And Elisha answered, The LORD hath shewed me that
thou shalt r Syria.

8:14 So he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who, What said Elisha to thee? And he answered, He told me that thou
shouy recover.

8:15 And it came to pass on the morrow, that he took a thi dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died:
and Hgned in his stead.

8:16 And in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahasrael,
Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Je hosof Judah began to reign.

8:17 Thirty and two years old was he when heign; and he
reigned eight years in Jerusalem.

8:18 And he walked in the kings of Israel, as did the house
of Ahab: for the daughter of Ahabfe: and he did evil in the
sight of the LORD.

8:19 Yet the LORD wouldy Judah for David his servant’s
sake, as he promised him to give himight, and to his
children.

8:20 In his days Edom revolted from under  Judah, and made
a king over themselves.

8:21 So Joram went over to Zll the chariots with him: and he
rose by night, and smote the Edomitespassed him about, and
the captains of the chariots: and the people fler tents.

8:22 Yet Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah unto thin Libnah revolted at the same time.

8:23 And the rest of the acts of all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the chronicles ofs of Judah?  8:24
And Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried witrs in
the city of David: and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.

8:welfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel did
Ahaziah the sooram king of Judah begin to reign.

8:26 Two and twenty years old was en he began to reign; and
he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mome was Athaliah,
the daughter of Omri king of Israel.

8:27 And he walway of the house of Ahab, and did evil in
the sight of the LORD, as diof Ahab: for he was the son in
law of the house of Ahab.

8:28 And he nt with Joram the son of Ahab to the war against Hazael
king of Syria gilead; and the Syrians wounded Joram.

8:29 And king Joram went back ed in Jezreel of the wounds
which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, ught against
Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king
went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was
sic Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets,
and sam, Gird up thy loins, and take this box of oil in
thine hand, and go tead: 9:2 And when thou comest thither,
look out there Jehu the son of t the son of Nimshi, and go
in, and make him arise up from among his band carry him to an
inner chamber; 9:3 Then take the box of oil, and phis head,
and say, Thus saith the LORD, I have anointed thee king overen open the door, and flee, and tarry not.

9:4 So the young man, evenng man the prophet, went to
Ramothgilead.

9:5 And when he came, beholtains of the host were sitting;
and he said, I have an errand to thee,. And Jehu said, Unto
which of all us? And he said, To thee, O captainhe arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil on
his head, to him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, I have
anointed thee king oeople of the LORD, even over Israel.

9:7 And thou shalt smite the hou thy master, that I may
avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, ood of all the
servants of the LORD, at the hand of Jezebel.

9:8 For ouse of Ahab shall perish: and I will cut off from
Ahab him that pisse the wall, and him that is shut up and
left in Israel: 9:9 And I will ouse of Ahab like the house
of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like theBaasha the son of
Ahijah: 9:10 And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the pezreel,
and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door, a:11 Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said
unt all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee? And he
said unto th the man, and his communication.

9:12 And they said, It is false; telnd he said, Thus and
thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith the LORD,ointed thee
king over Israel.

9:13 Then they hasted, and took every marment, and put it
under him on the top of the stairs, and blew with taying,
Jehu is king.

9:14 So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nired
against Joram. (Now Joram had kept Ramothgilead, he and all Israe of Hazael king of Syria.

9:15 But king Joram was returned to be healeel of the wounds
which the Syrians had given him, when he fought withing of
Syria.)  And Jehu said, If it be your minds, then let none go fcape out of the city to go to tell it in Jezreel.

9:16 So Jehu rode i, and went to Jezreel; for Joram lay
there.

And Ahaziah king of Judahdown to see Joram.

9:17 And there stood a watchman on the tower in Jehe spied
the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company. Anid, Take an horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it
pe So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said,
Thus saith the  peace? And Jehu said, What hast thou to do
with peace? turn thee behid the watchman told, saying, The
messenger came to them, but he cometh

9:19 Then he sent out a second on horseback, which came to them, and saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu answered, What hast
thou to do ? turn thee behind me.

9:20 And the watchman told, saying, He came evthem, and cometh
not again: and the driving is like the driving of Jehof
Nimshi; for he driveth furiously.

9:21 And Joram said, Make ready.hariot was made ready. And
Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Juout, each in his
chariot, and they went out against Jehu, and met him tion of
Naboth the Jezreelite.

9:22 And it came to pass, when Joram shat he said, Is it
peace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace, so long adoms of
thy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?  9:23 And d his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, O
Ahaz And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength, and smote Jehoram
between and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk
down in his chariot.n said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in
the portiohe field of Naboth the Jezreelite: for remember how
that, when I and together after Ahab his father, the LORD
laid this burden upon him; 9:2 have seen yesterday the blood
of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, sORD; and I will
requite thee in this plat, saith the LORD. Now therefocast
him into the plat of ground, according to the word of the LORD.

hen Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way
of the garde. And Jehu followed after him, and said, Smite him
also in the charioy did so at the going up to Gur, which is
by Ibleam.

And he fled to M died there.

9:28 And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusaburied him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David.

9: the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab began Ahaziah
to reign ove9:30 And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and she
pface, and tired her head, and looked out at a window.

9:31 And as Jehn at the gate, she said, Had Zimri peace,
who slew his master?  9:32 Aed up his face to the window,
and said, Who is on my side?  who? And td out to him two or
three eunuchs.

9:33 And he said, Throw her down. rew her down: and some of
her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on  and he trode
her under foot.

9:34 And when he was come in, he did eank, and said, Go, see
now this cursed woman, and bury her: for she is  daughter.

9:35 And they went to bury her: but they found no more of e
skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.

9:36 Wherefore then, and told him. And he said, This is the
word of the LORD, which he ss servant Elijah the Tishbite,
saying, In the portion of Jezreel shallthe flesh of Jezebel:
9:37 And the carcase of Jezebel shall be as dunge face of the
field in the portion of Jezreel; so that they shall not is
Jezebel.

10:1 And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wroteand
sent to Samaria, unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to brought up Ahab’s children, saying, 10:2 Now as soon as this
letter you, seeing your master’s sons are with you, and
there are with youand horses, a fenced city also, and
armour; 10:3 Look even out the besst of your master’s sons,
and set him on his father’s throne, and your master’s house.

10:4 But they were exceedingly afraid, and sai, two kings
stood not before him: how then shall we stand?  10:5 And h
over the house, and he that was over the city, the elders also, and
ts up of the children, sent to Jehu, saying, We are thy
servants, and wl that thou shalt bid us; we will not make any
king: do thou that whicin thine eyes.

10:6 Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, sye be
mine, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads ofur master’s sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to morrow this
time. ng’s sons, being seventy persons, were with the great
men of the citrought them up.

10:7 And it came to pass, when the letter came to theey took
the king’s sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heat him them to Jezreel.

10:8 And there came a messenger, and told him,king’s sons. And he said, Lay ye them in two
heaps at the entering in of the gate until the morning.

10:9 And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood,
and said to all the people, Ye be rieous: behold, I conspired
against my master, and slew him: but who slee?  10:10 Know
now that there shall fall unto the earth nothing of thehe
LORD, which the LORD spake concerning the house of Ahab: for the LOne that which he spake by his servant Elijah.

10:11 So Jehu slew all ed of the house of Ahab in Jezreel,
and all his great men, and his kind his priests, until he
left him none remaining.

10:12 And he arose aed, and came to Samaria. And as he was at
the shearing house in the waehu met with the brethren of
Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ey answered, We are
the brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute en of the
king and the children of the queen.

10:14 And he said, Takeve. And they took them alive, and slew
them at the pit of the shearingen two and forty men; neither
left he any of them.

10:15 And when he hence, he lighted on Jehonadab the son
of Rechab coming to meet him: ahe saluted him, and said to him, Is
thine heart right, as my heart is heart? And Jehonadab
answered, It is. If it be, give me thine hand. An him his
hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.

10:16 And Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD. So they
made him ride in h.

10:17 And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto Amaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the
LORD,e spake to Elijah.

10:18 And Jehu gathered all the people together, ao them,
Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu shall serve him much.

10:refore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all his
servants, and alsts; let none be wanting: for I have a great
sacrifice to do to Baal; shall be wanting, he shall not
live. But Jehu did it in subtilty, to tthat he might destroy
the worshippers of Baal.

10:20 And Jehu said, Polemn assembly for Baal. And they
proclaimed it.

10:21 And Jehu sent l Israel: and all the worshippers of
Baal came, so that there was not  that came not. And they
came into the house of Baal; and the house offull from one
end to another.

10:22 And he said unto him that was ovements for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them forth
vestmRechab, into the house
of Baal, and said unto the worshippers of Baal,the servants of the LORD, but the
worshippers of Baal only.

10:24 Andings,
Jehu appointed fourscore men without, and said, If any of the met letteth him go, his
life shall be for the life of him.

10:25 And itan end of offering
the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard andaptains,
Go in, and slay them; let none come forth. And they smote thee edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out,
andhe city of the house of Baal.

10:26 And they brought forth the imageshe house of Baal, and
burned them.

10:27 And they brake down the imag, and brake down the house
of Baal, and made it a draught house unto t10:28 Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.

10:29 Howbeit from the eroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin, Jehu departed not frem, to wit, the golden
calves that were in Bethel, and that were in Dand the LORD said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well in
executing th is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto the
house of Ahab accordinll that was in mine heart, thy children of
the fourth generation shalle throne of Israel.

10:31 But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law ofGod of
Israel with all his heart: for he departed not from the sins of, which made Israel to sin.

10:32 In those days the LORD began to cuthort: and Hazael
smote them in all the coasts of Israel; 10:33 From Jord,
all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the
M from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, even Gilead and
Bashan.

10:rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all
his might, are ritten in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of Israel?  10:35 Ant with his fathers: and they
buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his s in his stead.

10:36 And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Satwenty
and eight years.

11:1 And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah er son was
dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.

11:2 But the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah,
took Joash the son of nd stole him from among the king’s
sons which were slain; and they hn him and his nurse, in
the bedchamber from Athaliah, so that he was n.

11:3 And he was with her hid in the house of the LORD six years. Anh did reign over the land.

11:4 And the seventh year Jehoiada sent an the rulers over
hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and broughim
into the house of the LORD, and made a covenant with them, and tookf them in the house of the LORD, and shewed them the king’s son.

11ommanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall
do; A third parhat enter in on the sabbath shall even be
keepers of the watch of the se; 11:6 And a third part shall
be at the gate of Sur; and a third parte behind the guard:
so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it ken down.

11:7 And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath,
shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.

11:8 Al compass the king round about, every man with his
weapons in his handhat cometh within the ranges, let him be
slain: and be ye with the kineth out and as he cometh in.

11:9 And the captains over the hundreds ng to all things
that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took evemen
that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out ath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.

11:10 And to the captains over  did the priest give king
David’s spears and shields, that were in tf the LORD.

11:11 And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the left
he temple, along by the altar and the temple.

11:12 And he brought fong’s son, and put the crown upon him,
and gave him the testimony; ane him king, and anointed him;
and they clapped their hands, and said, he king.

11:13 And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of  she came to the people into the temple of the LORD.

11:14 And when sehold, the king stood by a pillar, as the
manner was, and the princes mpeters by the king, and all
the people of the land rejoiced, and blewets: and Athaliah
rent her clothes, and cried, Treason, Treason.

11:1ada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds,
the officers ofand said unto them, Have her forth without
the ranges: and him that fokill with the sword. For the
priest had said, Let her not be slain in f the LORD.

11:16 And they laid hands on her; and she went by the waych
the horses came into the king’s house: and there was she slain.

hoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and
the people, tshould be the LORD’s people; between the king
also and the people.

 all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and
brake it altars and his images brake they in pieces
thoroughly, and slew Mattan of Baal before the altars. And
the priest appointed officers over thehe LORD.

11:19 And he took the rulers over hundreds, and the captainsguard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king
se of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of the
guard to the kie. And he sat on the throne of the kings.

11:20 And all the people ofejoiced, and the city was in
quiet: and they slew Athaliah with the swthe king’s house.

11:21 Seven years old was Jehoash when he began t:1 In the seventh year of Jehu Jehoash began to reign; and forty
yearse in Jerusalem. And his mother’s name was Zibiah of
Beersheba.

12:2 did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
his days wherei the priest instructed him.

12:3 But the high places were not taken aople still
sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.

12:4 And  to the priests, All the money of the dedicated
things that is broughtouse of the LORD, even the money of
every one that passeth the accountney that every man is set
at, and all the money that cometh into any mrt to bring into
the house of the LORD, 12:5 Let the priests take it tery man
of his acquaintance: and let them repair the breaches of the hsoever any breach shall be found.

12:6 But it was so, that in the thrtieth year of king
Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches o.

12:7 Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and the othe and said unto them, Why repair ye not the breaches of the
house? now eceive no more money of your acquaintance, but
deliver it for the brea house.

12:8 And the priests consented to receive no more money of theither to repair the breaches of the house.

12:9 But Jehoiada the prichest, and bored a hole in the lid
of it, and set it beside the altar,ght side as one cometh
into the house of the LORD: and the priests thadoor put
therein all the money that was brought into the house of the 10 And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in the
chestking’s scribe and the high priest came up, and they
put up in bags, e money that was found in the house of the
LORD.

12:11 And they gave eing told, into the hands of them that
did the work, that had the overhe house of the LORD: and
they laid it out to the carpenters and build, that wrought upon the
house of the LORD, 12:12 And to masons, and heone, and to
buy timber and hewed stone to repair the breaches of the h
LORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.

12:1there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of
silver, snuffertrumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of
silver, of the money thatht into the house of the LORD:
12:14 But they gave that to the workmened therewith the
house of the LORD.

12:15 Moreover they reckoned not en, into whose hand they
delivered the money to be bestowed on workmendealt
faithfully.

12:16 The trespass money and sin money was not brouhe house
of the LORD: it was the priests’.

12:17 Then Hazael king ot up, and fought against Gath, and
took it: and Hazael set his face toJerusalem.

12:18 And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed thinhoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah,
had  and his own hallowed things, and all the gold that was
found in the tf the house of the LORD, and in the king’s
house, and sent it to Hazf Syria: and he went away from
Jerusalem.

12:19 And the rest of the aJoash, and all that he did, are they
not written in the book of the ch of the kings of Judah?
12:20 And his servants arose, and made a conspslew Joash in
the house of Millo, which goeth down to Silla.

12:21 Fothe son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of
Shomer, his servants, smnd he died; and they buried him with
his fathers in the city of David:ah his son reigned in his
stead.

13:1 In the three and twentieth yearhe son of Ahaziah king
of Judah Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reigel in
Samaria, and reigned seventeen years.

13:2 And he did that whicin the sight of the LORD, and
followed the sins of Jeroboam the son ofich made Israel to
sin; he departed not therefrom.

13:3 And the anger was kindled against Israel, and he
delivered them into the hand of Haf Syria, and into the
hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael, all their dad Jehoahaz besought the LORD, and the LORD hearkened unto him:
for he pression of Israel, because the king of Syria
oppressed them.

13:5 (Agave Israel a saviour, so that they went out from
under the hand of thand the children of Israel dwelt in
their tents, as beforetime.

13:6 s they departed not from the sins of the house of
Jeroboam, who made In, but walked therein: and there remained
the grove also in Samaria.) er did he leave of the people
to Jehoahaz but fifty horsemen, and ten nd ten thousand
footmen; for the king of Syria had destroyed them, andthem
like the dust by threshing.

13:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jeh all that he did, and
his might, are they not written in the book of tles of the
kings of Israel?  13:9 And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers;uried him in Samaria: and Joash his son reigned in his stead.

13:10 Ity and seventh year of Joash king of Judah began
Jehoash the son of Jereign over Israel in Samaria, and
reigned sixteen years.

13:11 And he which was evil in the sight of the LORD; he
departed not from all theroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel sin: but he walked therein.

he rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, and his
might whereught against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not
written in the book onicles of the kings of Israel?  13:13
And Joash slept with his fathersoam sat upon his throne:
and Joash was buried in Samaria with the king

13:14 Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died. An king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over his face,
and said, her, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the
horsemen thereof.

13:1a said unto him, Take bow and arrows. And he took unto
him bow and arr And he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow.
And hhand upon it: and Elisha put his hands upon the king’s
hands.

13:17id, Open the window eastward. And he opened it. Then
Elisha said, Shooshot. And he said, The arrow of the LORD’s
deliverance, and the arrorance from Syria: for thou shalt
smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thoumed them.

13:18 And he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And hnto
the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground. And he smote thrice, an:19 And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, Thou shouldest
hafive or six times; then hadst thou smitten Syria till
thou hadst consuereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice.

13:20 And Elisha died, aried him. And the bands of the
Moabites invaded the land at the coming year.

13:21 And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, b spied a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of
Elisen the man was let down, and touched the bones of
Elisha, he revived, up on his feet.

13:22 But Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all ts of
Jehoahaz.

13:23 And the LORD was gracious unto them, and had comn them,
and had respect unto them, because of his covenant with Abraha and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them
from his  yet.

13:24 So Hazael king of Syria died; and Benhadad his son reignetead.

13:25 And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again out of the handad the son of Hazael the cities, which he had taken out of the
hand ohis father by war. Three times did Joash beat him,
and recovered the csrael.

14:1 In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of IsraeAmaziah the son of Joash king of Judah.

14:2 He was twenty and five yhen he began to reign, and
reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem.other’s name was
Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

14:3 And he did that which in the sight of the LORD, yet not
like David his father: he did accorl things as Joash his
father did.

14:4 Howbeit the high places were naway: as yet the people
did sacrifice and burnt incense on the high pl5 And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in his
hanslew his servants which had slain the king his father.

14:6 But the c the murderers he slew not: according unto
that which is written in th the law of Moses, wherein the
LORD commanded, saying, The fathers sha put to death for the
children, nor the children be put to death for t; but every
man shall be put to death for his own sin.

14:7 He slew ohe valley of salt ten thousand, and took
Selah by war, and called the t Joktheel unto this day.

14:8 Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoasof Jehoahaz son
of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look onen the
face.

14:9 And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king 
saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was insaying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed
by a wilat was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

14:10 Thou hast indeeddom, and thine heart hath lifted thee
up: glory of this, and tarry at hou meddle to
thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judahherefore Jehoash king of Israel
went up; and he and Amaziah king of Juer in the
face at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah.

14:12 And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled
every man to their tents.

14:13 And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judahn
of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Bethshemesh, and came to Jerusaleme down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the
corner hundred cubits.

14:14 And he took all the gold and silver, and all ththat
were found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the
use, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.

14:15 Now the rest of theehoash which he did, and his might,
and how he fought with Amaziah kin, are they not written in
the book of the chronicles of the kings of I16 And Jehoash
slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with of
Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.

14:17 And Amaziof Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Jehoash son of Jehoahasrael fifteen years.

14:18 And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are titten in the
book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  14:19 Now 
conspiracy against him in Jerusalem: and he fled to Lachish; but theyr him to Lachish, and slew him there.

14:20 And they brought him on h he was buried at Jerusalem
with his fathers in the city of David.

14 the people of Judah took Azariah, which was sixteen
years old, and maad of his father Amaziah.

14:22 He built Elath, and restored it to Juah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

14:23 In the fifteentAmaziah the son of Joash king of Judah
Jeroboam the son of Joash king l began to reign in Samaria,
and reigned forty and one years.

14:24 Athat which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not from alloam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

14:25 He restored the crael from the entering of Hamath unto
the sea of the plain, according d of the LORD God of Israel,
which he spake by the hand of his servante son of Amittai,
the prophet, which was of Gathhepher.

14:26 For thehe affliction of Israel, that it was very
bitter: for there was not an nor any left, nor any helper
for Israel.

14:27 And the LORD said not blot out the name of Israel
from under heaven: but he saved them by t Jeroboam the son
of Joash.

14:28 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboathat he did, and
his might, how he warred, and how he recovered Damascmath,
which belonged to Judah, for Israel, are they not written in thehe chronicles of the kings of Israel?  14:29 And Jeroboam slept
with h, even with the kings of Israel; and Zachariah his son
reigned in his 1 In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began
Azar of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.

15:2 Sixteen years old was he whe to reign, and he reigned
two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mome was Jecholiah
of Jerusalem.

15:3 And he did that which was right it of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah had done; 15:4 the
high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt inc on the high places.

15:5 And the LORD smote the king, so that he wasunto the day
of his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham th son
was over the house, judging the people of the land.

15:6 And thehe acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are
they not written in the bchronicles of the kings of Judah?
15:7 So Azariah slept with his fatheey buried him with his
fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son his stead.

15:8 In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Juchariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.

e did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his
fathers hadeparted not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of
Nebat, who made Israe
15:10 And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote
the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.

15:11 And the resacts of Zachariah, behold, they are written
in the book of the chronic kings of Israel.

15:12 This was the word of the LORD which he spake saying,
Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth gend so it came to pass.

15:13 Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign e and
thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full moaria.

15:14 For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and camea, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him,
and ris stead.

15:15 And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspirae
made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the
srael.

15:16 Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, asts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, therefore
he nd all the women therein that were with child he ripped
up.

15:17 In d thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began
Menahem the son of Gadover Israel, and reigned ten years in
Samaria.

15:18 And he did that  evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not all his days from the roboam the son of Nebat,
who made Israel to sin.

15:19 And Pul the kiria came against the land: and Menahem
gave Pul a thousand talents of that his hand might be with him
to confirm the kingdom in his hand.

1Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty
men of weaach man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the
king of Assyria. So thAssyria turned back, and stayed not
there in the land.

15:21 And the  acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are
they not written in the boohronicles of the kings of Israel?
15:22 And Menahem slept with his fatekahiah his son reigned
in his stead.

15:23 In the fiftieth year of Ag of Judah Pekahiah the son
of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Snd reigned two
years.

15:24 And he did that which was evil in the sig LORD: he
departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, whol to sin.

15:25 But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, consst him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king’s
house,and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites:
and he killed himned in his room.

15:26 And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all ,
behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings 
15:27 In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah thealiah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned
twenty years. he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he
departed not ins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made
Israel to sin.

15:29 In thPekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king of
Assyria, and took Ijolbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh,
and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galile land of Naphtali, and
carried them captive to Assyria.

15:30 And Hoon of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the
son of Remaliah, and smnd slew him, and reigned in his
stead, in the twentieth year of Jothamf Uzziah.

15:31 And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he di
they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israeln the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel
began Jon of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.

15:33 Five and twenty years old whe began to reign, and he
reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his name was Jerusha,
the daughter of Zadok.

15:34 And he did that which n the sight of the LORD: he did
according to all that his father Uzzia.

15:35 Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate
of the h LORD.

15:36 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did,not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
15:37e days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the
king of Syria, ae son of Remaliah.

15:38 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was bhis
fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned ad.

16:1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Ahaz thotham king of Judah began to reign.

16:2 Twenty years old was Ahaz wh to reign, and reigned
sixteen years in Jerusalem, and did not that whht in the
sight of the LORD his God, like David his father.

16:3 But n the way of the kings of Israel, yea, and made
his son to pass throug, according to the abominations of the
heathen, whom the LORD cast outre the children of Israel.

16:4 And he sacrificed and burnt incense iplaces, and on
the hills, and under every green tree.

16:5 Then Rezinria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel
came up to Jerusalem to wey besieged Ahaz, but could not
overcome him.

16:6 At that time Rezinyria recovered Elath to Syria, and
drave the Jews from Elath: and the e to Elath, and dwelt
there unto this day.

16:7 So Ahaz sent messengethpileser king of Assyria,
saying, I am thy servant and thy son: come ve me out of the
hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of thesrael,
which rise up against me.

16:8 And Ahaz took the silver and gos found in the house of
the LORD, and in the treasures of the king’sd sent it for a
present to the king of Assyria.

16:9 And the king of arkened unto him: for the king of
Assyria went up against Damascus, anand carried the people
of it captive to Kir, and slew Rezin.

16:10 An went to Damascus to meet Tiglathpileser king of
Assyria, and saw an aas at Damascus: and king Ahaz sent to
Urijah the priest the fashion of, and the pattern of it,
according to all the workmanship thereof.

16ijah the priest built an altar according to all that king
Ahaz had senascus: so Urijah the priest made it against king
Ahaz came from Damasc And when the king was come from Damascus, the king saw the
altar: andapproached to the altar, and offered thereon.

16:13 And he burnt his ering and his meat offering, and
poured his drink offering, and sprink of his peace
offerings, upon the altar.

16:14 And he brought also thasen altar, which was before the LORD,
from the forefront of the houseeen the altar and the house
of the LORD, and put it on the north side ar.

16:15 And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon theltar burn the morning burnt offering, and the evening meat
offering, a’s burnt sacrifice, and his meat offering, with
the burnt offering opeople of the land, and their meat
offering, and their drink offeringskle upon it all the
blood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of ice: and
the brasen altar shall be for me to enquire by.

16:16 Thus dhe priest, according to all that king Ahaz
commanded.

16:17 And king f the borders of the bases, and removed the
laver from off them; and te sea from off the brasen oxen
that were under it, and put it upon thef stones.

16:18 And the covert for the sabbath that they had built in
and the king’s entry without, turned he from the house of the LORD g of Assyria.

16:19 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, arwritten in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  16:20
Anpt with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in
the city of Daezekiah his son reigned in his stead.

17:1 In the twelfth year of Ahaudah began Hoshea the son of
Elah to reign in Samaria over Israel nine:2 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, but not
asof Israel that were before him.

17:3 Against him came up Shalmaneser  Assyria; and Hoshea
became his servant, and gave him presents.

17:4 ng of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea: for he had
sent messengers tof Egypt, and brought no present to the
king of Assyria, as he had donear: therefore the king of
Assyria shut him up, and bound him in prisohen the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and
went up tand besieged it three years.

17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea the kina took Samaria, and
carried Israel away into Assyria, and placed them nd in
Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.

17t was, that the children of Israel had sinned against the
LORD their Gad brought them up out of the land of Egypt,
from under the hand of Ph of Egypt, and had feared other
gods, 17:8 And walked in the statutes hen, whom the LORD
cast out from before the children of Israel, and of of
Israel, which they had made.

17:9 And the children of Israel did ose things that were
not right against the LORD their God, and they bugh places
in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the f

17:10 And they set them up images and groves in every high hill, andy green tree: 17:11 And there they burnt incense in all the
high placed the heathen whom the LORD carried away before
them; and wrought wickke the LORD to anger: 17:12
For they served idols, whereof the LORD ha them, Ye shall
not do this thing.

17:13 Yet the LORD testified again and against Judah, by all
the prophets, and by all the seers, saying,rom your evil
ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, accordine
law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my
seprophets.

17:14 Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened thelike to the neck of their fathers, that did not believe in the LORD
th17:15 And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made
wiathers, and his testimonies which he testified against
them; and they nity, and became vain, and went after the
heathen that were round abouncerning whom the LORD had
charged them, that they should not do like 16 And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God, and
made  images, even two calves, and made a grove, and
worshipped all the hos, and served Baal.

17:17 And they caused their sons and their daughtethrough
the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themso evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

17:18 ThereRD was very angry with Israel, and removed them
out of his sight: ther left but the tribe of Judah only.

17:19 Also Judah kept not the comm the LORD their God, but
walked in the statutes of Israel which they m0 And the LORD rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted
them, anred them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast
them out of his 21 For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they made
Jeroboam Nebat king: and Jeroboam drave Israel from
following the LORD, and mad a great sin.

17:22 For the children of Israel walked in all the sinsm
which he did; they departed not from them; 17:23 Until the LORD
remoout of his sight, as he had said by all his servants
the prophets. So  carried away out of their own land to
Assyria unto this day.

17:24 A of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from
Cuthah, and from Ava, amath, and from Sepharvaim, and placed
them in the cities of Samaria inhe children of Israel: and
they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cif.

17:25 And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there, thated not the LORD: therefore the LORD sent lions among them,
which slew em.

17:26 Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nach thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not
th the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions among
them, and, be slay them, because they know not the manner of
the God of the land.

 the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of
the pries brought from thence; and let them go and dwell
there, and let him tea manner of the God of the land.

17:28 Then one of the priests whom thied away from Samaria
came and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how thear the
LORD.

17:29 Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and n the
houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every neir cities wherein they dwelt.

17:30 And the men of Babylon made Succand the men of Cuth
made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima, 17 Avites
made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burnt their childr to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.

17:32 So they LORD, and made unto themselves of the lowest
of them priests of the h which sacrificed for them in the
houses of the high places.

17:33 Thhe LORD, and served their own gods, after the
manner of the nations whried away from thence.

17:34 Unto this day they do after the former mthey fear not
the LORD, neither do they after their statutes, or afterdinances, or after the law and commandment which the LORD commanded
thof Jacob, whom he named Israel; 17:35 With whom the LORD
had made a cod charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear other
gods, nor bow yourselv nor serve them, nor sacrifice to
them: 17:36 But the LORD, who brought of the land of Egypt
with great power and a stretched out arm, him s, and him
shall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice.

17:37 And the
commandment, which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do for
evermore; and ye shall not fear other gods.

17:38 And the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget;
neither shall ye fear ots.

17:39 But the LORD your God ye shall fear; and he shall deliver yothe hand of all your enemies.

17:40 Howbeit they did not hearken, but after their former
manner.

17:41 So these nations feared the LORD, atheir graven
images, both their children, and their children’s childd
their fathers, so do they unto this day.

18:1 Now it came to pass id year of Hoshea son of Elah king
of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of of Judah began to reign.

18:2 Twenty and five years old was he when h reign; and he
reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. His motherlso was
Abi, the daughter of Zachariah.

18:3 And he did that which wa the sight of the LORD,
according to all that David his father did.

1moved the high places, and brake the images, and cut down
the groves,  in pieces the brasen serpent that Moses had
made: for unto those daysdren of Israel did burn incense to
it: and he called it Nehushtan.

18ted in the LORD God of Israel; so that after him was none
like him amoe kings of Judah, nor any that were before him.

18:6 For he clave to  and departed not from following him,
but kept his commandments, whichommanded Moses.

18:7 And the LORD was with him; and he prospered whithe went
forth: and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and servedHe smote the Philistines, even unto Gaza, and the borders
thereof, frothe tower of the watchmen to the fenced city.

18:9 And it came to pasfourth year of king Hezekiah, which
was the seventh year of Hoshea sonng of Israel, that
Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samariaeged it.

18:10 And at the end of three years they took it: even in thar of Hezekiah, that is in the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel,
Saaken.

18:11 And the king of Assyria did carry away Israel unto Assyri them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the
cities o: 18:12 Because they obeyed not the voice of the
LORD their God, but this covenant, and all that Moses the
servant of the LORD commanded, anar them, nor do them.

18:13 Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekinacherib king
of Assyria come up against all the fenced cities of Judak
them.

18:14 And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria , saying, I have offended; return from me: that which thou
puttest on  bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto
Hezekiah king of Judah ted talents of silver and thirty
talents of gold.

18:15 And Hezekiah gl the silver that was found in the house
of the LORD, and in the trease king’s house.

18:16 At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold froors of the
temple of the LORD, and from the pillars which Hezekiah kih
had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria.

18:17 And the kinria sent Tartan and Rabsaris and Rabshakeh
from Lachish to king Hezekigreat host against Jerusalem. And
they went up and came to Jerusalem.  they were come up, they
came and stood by the conduit of the upper poh is in the
highway of the fuller’s field.

18:18 And when they had o the king, there came out to them
Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which we household, and Shebna
the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the reco:19 And Rabshakeh said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah, Thus
saith king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this
wherein thou trust0 Thou sayest, (but they are but vain
words,) I have counsel and strene war. Now on whom dost thou
trust, that thou rebellest against me?  1behold, thou
trustest upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Ewhich if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so is
Phof Egypt unto all that trust on him.

18:22 But if ye say unto me, We he LORD our God: is not that
he, whose high places and whose altars Heh taken away, and
hath said to Judah and Jerusalem, Ye shall worship bs altar
in Jerusalem?  18:23 Now therefore, I pray thee, give pledges the king of Assyria, and I will deliver thee two thousand horses,
if te on thy part to set riders upon them.

18:24 How then wilt thou turn ace of one captain of the
least of my master’s servants, and put thy Egypt for chariots
and for horsemen?  18:25 Am I now come up without  against
this place to destroy it?  The LORD said to me, Go up against, and destroy it.

18:26 Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Sheoah, unto
Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to thy servants in the Syrian;
for we understand it: and talk not with us in the Jews’ language i of the people that are on the wall.

18:27 But Rabshakeh said unto thy master sent me to thy
master, and to thee, to speak these words? hatt sent me to the
men which sit on the wall, that they may eat their ownd drink
their own piss with you?  18:28 Then Rabshakeh stood and crieloud voice in the Jews’ language, and spake, saying, Hear the word o king, the king of Assyria: 18:29 Thus saith the king, Let
not Hezekiayou: for he shall not be able to deliver you out
of his hand: 18:30 NeHezekiah make you trust in the LORD,
saying, The LORD will surely delid this city shall not be
delivered into the hand of the king of Assyri Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria,
Make an ith me by a present, and come out to me, and then
eat ye every man of ne, and every one of his fig tree, and
drink ye every one the waters otern: 18:32 Until I come and
take you away to a land like your own land of corn and wine, a
land of bread and vineyards, a land of oil oliveney, that ye
may live, and not die: and hearken not unto Hezekiah, wheersuadeth you, saying, The LORD will deliver us.

18:33 Hath any of ththe nations delivered at all his land
out of the hand of the king of A:34 Where are the gods of
Hamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of , Hena, and
Ivah? have they delivered Samaria out of mine hand?  18:35ey among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered their
coun mine hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out
of mine hand?  he people held their peace, and answered him
not a word: for the kingment was, saying, Answer him not.

18:37 Then came Eliakim the son of ich was over the
household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of
recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the wordseh.

19:1 And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rethes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the
house of t9:2 And he sent Eliakim, which was over the household, and Shebna the
nd the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to
Isaiah the pr son of Amoz.

19:3 And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This  day of
trouble, and of rebuke, and blasphemy; for the children are cohe birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.

19:4 It may be th God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh,
whom the king of Assyria hihath sent to reproach the living
God; and will reprove the words whichhy God hath heard:
wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that a19:5 So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.

19:6 And Isaiah them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thus
saith the LORD, Be not ae words which thou hast heard, with
which the servants of the king of ve blasphemed me.

19:7 Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he sa rumour,
and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to faword in his own land.

19:8 So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king  warring
against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from La:9 And when he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, Behold, he is
c fight against thee: he sent messengers again unto
Hezekiah, saying, 1shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah,
saying, Let not thy God in wrustest deceive thee, saying,
Jerusalem shall not be delivered into thhe king of Assyria.

19:11 Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Aave done to
all lands, by destroying them utterly: and shalt thou be d9:12 Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers
have; as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of
Eden which werear?  19:13 Where is the king of Hamath, and
the king of Arpad, and the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena,
and Ivah?  19:14 And Hezekiah received thand of the
messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up into the houLORD, and spread it before the LORD.

19:15 And Hezekiah prayed before and said, O LORD God of
Israel, which dwellest between the cherubims,the God, even
thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; thou hast 
and earth.

19:16 LORD, bow down thine ear, and hear: open, LORD, thid
see: and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him to
reproving God.

19:17 Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have destroyedns and their lands, 19:18 And have cast their gods into the fire:
for o gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone:
therefore they oyed them.

19:19 Now therefore, O LORD our God, I beseech thee, save 
of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou ar God, even thou only.

19:20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezek, Thus saith
the LORD God of Israel, That which thou hast prayed to meennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.

19:21 This is the word that ath spoken concerning him; The
virgin the daughter of Zion hath despisnd laughed thee to
scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her he.

19:22 Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom halted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against
the Holsrael.

19:23 By thy messengers thou hast reproached the LORD, and hasith the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of the
mou the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall cedar
trees thereof,e fir trees thereof: and I will enter into
the lodgings of his bordersnd into the forest of his Carmel.

19:24 I have digged and drunk stran, and with the sole of my
feet have I dried up all the rivers of besies.

19:25 Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it, and of ancithat I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou
shouldlay waste fenced cities into ruinous heaps.

19:26 Therefore their inhere of small power, they were
dismayed and confounded; they were as thf the field, and as
the green herb, as the grass on the house tops, anblasted
before it be grown up.

19:27 But I know thy abode, and thy goand thy coming in, and
thy rage against me.

19:28 Because thy rage ag and thy tumult is come up into mine
ears, therefore I will put my hoonose, and my bridle in thy
lips, and I will turn thee back by the way hou camest.

19:29 And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat thh
things as grow of themselves, and in the second year that which
sprihe same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and
plant vineyards, e fruits thereof.

19:30 And the remnant that is escaped of the house all yet
again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.

19:31 For oualem shall go forth a remnant, and they that
escape out of mount Zion:of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

19:32 Therefore thus saith the LOning the king of Assyria, He
shall not come into this city, nor shoot here, nor come
before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it.

19:way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall
not come into saith the LORD.

19:34 For I will defend this city, to save it, for mke, and
for my servant David’s sake.

19:35 And it came to pass thatat the angel of the LORD went
out, and smote in the camp of the Assyrired fourscore and
five thousand: and when they arose early in the mornd, they
were all dead corpses.

19:36 So Sennacherib king of Assyria dd went and returned,
and dwelt at Nineveh.

19:37 And it came to pass,s worshipping in the house of
Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Shsons smote him with
the sword: and they escaped into the land of Armenrhaddon
his son reigned in his stead.

20:1 In those days was Hezekiah death. And the prophet
Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him, and said uus saith the
LORD, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and n0:2 Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto the LORD,
say beseech thee, O LORD, remember now how I have walked
before thee in tth a perfect heart, and have done that
which is good in thy sight. Andept sore.

20:4 And it came to pass, afore Isaiah was gone out into thourt, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying, 20:5 Turn again,
ezekiah the captain of my people, Thus saith the LORD, the
God of Davir, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy
tears: behold, I will healhe third day thou shalt go up
unto the house of the LORD.

20:6 And I unto thy days fifteen years; and I will deliver
thee and this city outd of the king of Assyria; and I will
defend this city for mine own sakmy servant David’s sake.

20:7 And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs.took and laid it
on the boil, and he recovered.

20:8 And Hezekiah saiaiah, What shall be the sign that the
LORD will heal me, and that I shinto the house of the LORD
the third day?  20:9 And Isaiah said, This  thou have of the
LORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he hath sll the
shadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?  20:10 Ah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten
degrees:et the shadow return backward ten degrees.

20:11 And Isaiah the prophnto the LORD: and he brought the
shadow ten degrees backward, by whichne down in the dial of
Ahaz.

20:12 At that time Berodachbaladan, the ladan, king of
Babylon, sent letters and a present unto Hezekiah: for rd
that Hezekiah had been sick.

20:13 And Hezekiah hearkened unto thewed them all the house
of his precious things, the silver, and the golpices, and
the precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, andwas found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in allnion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.

20:14 Then came Isaiah the prophg Hezekiah, and said unto
him, What said these men? and from whence caey unto thee? And
Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, eveylon.

20:15 And he said, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezewered, All the things that are in mine house have they seen: there
is mong my treasures that I have not shewed them.

20:16 And Isaiah said iah, Hear the word of the LORD.

20:17 Behold, the days come, that alln thine house, and that
which thy fathers have laid up in store unto thall be
carried into Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.

of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt
beget, shall away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace
of the king of Babylon.
n said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD
which thou h. And he said, Is it not good, if peace and
truth be in my days?  20:2rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and
all his might, and how he made a pooonduit, and brought
water into the city, are they not written in the bchronicles of the kings of Judah?  20:21 And Hezekiah slept with his
fnd Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.

21:1 Manasseh was twelve yeen he began to reign, and reigned
fifty and five years in Jerusalem. Aher’s name was
Hephzibah.

21:2 And he did that which was evil in th the LORD, after
the abominations of the heathen, whom the LORD cast othe
children of Israel.

21:3 For he built up again the high places whiah his father
had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and ma, as
did Ahab king of Israel; and worshipped all the host of heaven, a them.

21:4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which thd, In Jerusalem will I put my name.

21:5 And he built altars for all of heaven in the two courts
of the house of the LORD.

21:6 And he madass through the fire, and observed times,
and used enchantments, and dfamiliar spirits and wizards: he
wrought much wickedness in the sight D, to provoke him to
anger.

21:7 And he set a graven image of the groe had made in the
house, of which the LORD said to David, and to Solomn, In
this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all triael, will I put my name for ever: 21:8 Neither will I make the feet
ofve any more out of the land which I gave their fathers;
only if they we to do according to all that I have commanded
them, and according to aw that my servant Moses commanded
them.

21:9 But they hearkened not:eh seduced them to do more evil
than did the nations whom the LORD desore the children of
Israel.

21:10 And the LORD spake by his servants ets, saying, 21:11
Because Manasseh king of Judah hath done these abom, and hath
done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, which were b
and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols: 21:12 Therefore thus
LORD God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil upon
Jerusalem andat whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall
tingle.

21:13 And I we of Samaria, and the
plummet of the house of Ahab: and I will wipe Jeh a dish, wiping it, and turning it upside down.

21:14 And I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliver
them into the hand oheir enemies; and they shall become a prey and
a spoil to all their en:15 Because they have done that which
was evil in my sight, and have p to anger, since the day
their fathers came forth out of Egypt, even uay.

21:16 Moreover Manasseh shed innocent blood very much, till he haerusalem from one end to another; beside his sin wherewith he
made Jud in doing that which was evil in the sight of the
LORD.

21:17 Now thehe acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and
his sin that he sinned, not written in the book of the
chronicles of the kings of Judah?  21:1sseh slept with his
fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own h the garden
of Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.

21:19 Amowenty and two years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned two yeasalem. And his mother’s name was
Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz

21:20 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as hianasseh did.

21:21 And he walked in all the way that his father walke the idols that his father served, and worshipped them: 21:22
And he fok the LORD God of his fathers, and walked not in the way
of the LORD.d the servants of Amon conspired against him, and slew the
king in his.

21:24 And the people of the land slew all them that had conspired
ang Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king
in his st Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not
written i of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?  21:26
And he was buried in e in the garden of Uzza: and Josiah
his son reigned in his stead.

22:ight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
thirty and one yusalem. And his mother’s name was Jedidah,
the daughter of Adaiah of
22:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, and
walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to the
right hand or to the left.

22:3 And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that
the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the
scribe, to the house of the LORD, saying, 22:4 Go up to Hilkiah the
high priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into the
house of the LORD, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the
people: 22:5 And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the
work, that have the oversight of the house of the L let them
give it to the doers of the work which is in the house of threpair the breaches of the house, 22:6 Unto carpenters, and builders,
, and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house.

22:7 Howbeit o reckoning made with them of the money that
was delivered into their use they dealt faithfully.

22:8 And Hilkiah the high priest said untohe scribe, I have
found the book of the law in the house of the LORD.  gave
the book to Shaphan, and he read it.

22:9 And Shaphan the scribhe king, and brought the king
word again, and said, Thy servants have  money that was
found in the house, and have delivered it into the han them that
do the work, that have the oversight of the house of the LO10 And Shaphan the scribe shewed the king, saying, Hilkiah the
priest vered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.

22:11 And it ca, when the king had heard the words of the
book of the law, that he rees.

22:12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the shan, and Achbor the son of Michaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and
Asahit of the king’s, saying, 22:13 Go ye, enquire of the
LORD for me, aneople, and for all Judah, concerning the
words of this book that is foeat is the wrath of the LORD
that is kindled against us, because our fe not hearkened
unto the words of this book, to do according unto all  is
written concerning us.

22:14 So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, aand Shaphan, and
Asahiah, went unto Huldah the prophetess, the wife ofhe son
of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she erusalem in the college;) and they communed with her.

22:15 And she shem, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tell
the man that sent you to hus saith the LORD, Behold, I will
bring evil upon this place, and upoitants thereof, even all
the words of the book which the king of Judah 22:17 Because
they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto othhat
they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands;
ore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and shall not
be que.

22:18 But to the king of Judah which sent you to enquire of the LORall ye say to him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, As
touching the  thou hast heard; 22:19 Because thine heart
was tender, and thou hast self before the LORD, when thou
heardest what I spake against this plaainst the inhabitants
thereof, that they should become a desolation anand hast
rent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee,LORD.

22:20 Behold therefore, I will gather thee unto thy fathers, analt be gathered into thy grave in peace; and thine eyes shall not
see il which I will bring upon this place. And they brought
the king word 1 And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of
Judaerusalem.

23:2 And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and ahe men
of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and theand the prophets, and all the people, both small and great:
and he reaears all the words of the book of the covenant
which was found in the e LORD.

23:3 And the king stood by a pillar, and made a covenant befoD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments and his
testimd his statutes with all their heart and all their soul,
to perform thethis covenant that were written in this book.
And all the people stoodenant.

23:4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the pthe second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out
of tf the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, and
for the grove,all the host of heaven: and he burned them
without Jerusalem in the fidron, and carried the ashes of
them unto Bethel.

23:5 And he put downtrous priests, whom the kings of Judah
had ordained to burn incense inplaces in the cities of
Judah, and in the places round about Jerusalem that burned
incense unto Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to th
and to all the host of heaven.

23:6 And he brought out the grove froe of the LORD, without
Jerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned itok Kidron,
and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereofgraves of the children of the people.

23:7 And he brake down the housodomites, that were by the
house of the LORD, where the women wove hanhe grove.

23:8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Jufiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from
Geba heba, and brake down the high places of the gates that
were in the entf the gate of Joshua the governor of the
city, which were on a man’sat the gate of the city.

23:9 Nevertheless the priests of the high plnot up to the
altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they did eat of the bread among their brethren.

23:10 And he defiled Topheth, which is in of the children
of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daugs
through the fire to Molech.

23:11 And he took away the horses that of Judah had given to
the sun, at the entering in of the house of the e chamber
of Nathanmelech the chamberlain, which was in the suburbs, ahe chariots of the sun with fire.

23:12 And the altars that were on the upper chamber of
Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the a Manasseh
had made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, did the
down, and brake them down from thence, and cast the dust of them intoKidron.

23:13 And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which wright hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king of
Israeded for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Zidonians, and
for Chemosh thion of the Moabites, and for Milcom the
abomination of the children ofon, did the king defile.

23:14 And he brake in pieces the images, andhe groves, and
filled their places with the bones of men.

23:15 Moreoltar that was at Bethel, and the high place which
Jeroboam the son of  made Israel to sin, had made, both that
altar and the high place he b and burned the high place, and
stamped it small to powder, and burned

23:16 And as Josiah turned himself, he spied the sepulchres that werhe mount, and sent, and took the bones out of the
sepulchres, and burnon the altar, and polluted it, according
to the word of the LORD whichf God proclaimed, who
proclaimed these words.

23:17 Then he said, Wha that that I see? And the men of the
city told him, It is the sepulchrn of God, which came from
Judah, and proclaimed these things that thou against the
altar of Bethel.

23:18 And he said, Let him alone; let n his bones. So they
let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophetout of
Samaria.

23:19 And all the houses also of the high places thathe
cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke thanger, Josiah took away, and did to them according to all the
acts thaone in Bethel.

23:20 And he slew all the priests of the high places tthere
upon the altars, and burned men’s bones upon them, and returnelem.

23:21 And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the pahe LORD your God, as it is written in the book of this covenant.

23:2urely there was not holden such a passover from the days of the
judgesd Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel,
nor of the kings 23:23 But in the eighteenth year of king
Josiah, wherein this passoven to the LORD in Jerusalem.

23:24 Moreover the workers with familiar  and the wizards, and
the images, and the idols, and all the abominatiere spied in
the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, did Josiah put away, ht
perform the words of the law which were written in the book that
Hiriest found in the house of the LORD.

23:25 And like unto him was thebefore him, that turned to
the LORD with all his heart, and with all hnd with all his
might, according to all the law of Moses; neither afte
there any like him.

23:26 Notwithstanding the LORD turned not from tss of his
great wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah, all the provocations that Manasseh had provoked him withal.

23:27 Andsaid, I will remove Judah also out of my sight, as
I have removed Israill cast off this city Jerusalem which I
have chosen, and the house ofaid, My name shall be there.

23:28 Now the rest of the acts of Josiahat he did, are
they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kdah?
23:29 In his days Pharaohnechoh king of Egypt went up against thesyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josiah went against him;
and het Megiddo, when he had seen him.

23:30 And his servants carried him i dead from Megiddo, and
brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in hichre. And the
people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and im,
and made him king in his father’s stead.

23:31 Jehoahaz was tweree years old when he began to reign;
and he reigned three months in Jnd his mother’s name was
Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnahnd he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to as fathers had done.

23:33 And Pharaohnechoh put him in bands at Ribland of
Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land te of an hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.

23:34 And Phh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the
room of Josiah his fathered his name to Jehoiakim, and took
Jehoahaz away: and he came to Egyptd there.

23:35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh;ed the land to give the money according to the commandment of
Pharaoh: the silver and the gold of the people of the land,
of every one accors taxation, to give it unto Pharaohnechoh.

23:36 Jehoiakim was twentyears old when he began to reign;
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusa mother’s name was
Zebudah, the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.

23:37that which was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that hihad done.

24:1 In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, an
became his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled against
hnd the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldees, and bands of
the S bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of
Ammon, and sent tt Judah to destroy it, according to the
word of the LORD, which he spaervants the prophets.

24:3 Surely at the commandment of the LORD cameJudah, to
remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, accol that he did; 24:4 And also for the innocent blood that he shed:
for erusalem with innocent blood; which the LORD would not
pardon.

24:5 Nt of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are
they not written k of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
24:6 So Jehoiakim slept witthers: and Jehoiachin his son
reigned in his stead.

24:7 And the kingcame not again any more out of his land:
for the king of Babylon had t the river of Egypt unto the
river Euphrates all that pertained to thegypt.

24:8 Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, gned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother’s name was Nehushta,
er of Elnathan of Jerusalem.

24:9 And he did that which was evil in tof the LORD,
according to all that his father had done.

24:10 At thatservants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came
up against Jerusalem, ty was besieged.

24:11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came againscity, and
his servants did besiege it.

24:12 And Jehoiachin the king went out to the king of
Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants,rinces, and
his officers: and the king of Babylon took him in the eighhis reign.

24:13 And he carried out thence all the treasures of the he
LORD, and the treasures of the king’s house, and cut in pieces allls of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of
the he LORD had said.

24:14 And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all th and all
the mighty men of valour, even ten thousand captives, and allsmen and smiths: none remained, save the poorest sort of the
people ofd.

24:15 And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king’s
d the king’s wives, and his officers, and the mighty of the
land, th he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.

24:16 And all the men oen seven thousand, and craftsmen and
smiths a thousand, all that were apt for war, even them the
king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.d the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his father’s brother king
in hid changed his name to Zedekiah.

24:18 Zedekiah was twenty and one yea he began to reign,
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his name was
Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

24:19 And he dich was evil in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that Jehoiakim 4:20 For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem
antil he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah
rebelled agang of Babylon.

25:1 And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reigtenth
month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king o came, he, and all his host, against Jerusalem, and pitched
against it built forts against it round about.

25:2 And the city was besieged uventh year of king
Zedekiah.

25:3 And on the ninth day of the fourth e famine prevailed in
the city, and there was no bread for the people .

25:4 And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by nigay of the gate between two walls, which is by the king’s
garden: (noees were against the city round about:) and the
king went the way towain.

25:5 And the army of the Chaldees pursued after the king, and ovein the plains of Jericho: and all his army were scattered from
him.

2 took the king, and brought him up to the king of Babylon
to Riblah; ae judgment upon him.

25:7 And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before hnd put out
the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him with fetters of brass, d
him to Babylon.

25:8 And in the fifth month, on the seventh day of  which is
the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, radan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon,
unto Je:9 And he burnt the house of the LORD, and the
king’s house, and alls of Jerusalem, and every great man’s
house burnt he with fire.

25:the army of the Chaldees, that were with the captain of
the guard, bra walls of Jerusalem round about.

25:11 Now the rest of the people thaugitives that fell away to the king of Babylon, with the remnant of
thtain of the guard carry away.

25:12 But the captain of the guard left of the door of the poor of the
land to be vinedressers and husbandmen.

25:13 And the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD, e bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD, did
thebreak in pieces, and carried the brass of them to
Babylon.

25:14 And and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons,
and all the vesselsherewith they ministered, took they
away.

25:15 And the firepans, and and such things as were of
gold, in gold, and of silver, in silver, t of the guard took
away.

25:16 The two pillars, one sea, and the baselomon had made
for the house of the LORD; the brass of all these vessehout
weight.

25:17 The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, apiter upon it was brass: and the height of the chapiter three
cubits;reathen work, and pomegranates upon the chapiter
round about, all of blike unto these had the second pillar
with wreathen work.

25:18 And t of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and
Zephaniah the second  three keepers of the door: 25:19
And out of the city he took an officthat was set over the men of
war, and five men of them that were in ths presence, which were
found in the city, and the principal scribe of, which
mustered the people of the land, and threescore men of the peo land that were found in the city: 25:20 And Nebuzaradan captain of
thook these, and brought them to the king of Babylon to
Riblah: 25:21 An of Babylon smote them, and slew them at
Riblah in the land of Hamath.was carried away out of their
land.

25:22 And as for the people that n the land of Judah, whom
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, evem he made
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, ruler.

25:2 all the captains of the armies, they and their men,
heard that the kilon had made Gedaliah governor, there came
to Gedaliah to Mizpah, evenhe son of Nethaniah, and Johanan
the son of Careah, and Seraiah the sothe Netophathite,
and Jaazaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and the5:24 And Gedaliah sware to them, and to their men, and said unto
them, to be the servants of the Chaldees: dwell in the land,
and serve the bylon; and it shall be well with you.

25:25 But it came to pass in thth month, that Ishmael the son
of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of tyal, came, and ten
men with him, and smote Gedaliah, that he died, andand the
Chaldees that were with him at Mizpah.

25:26 And all the peop small and great, and the captains of
the armies, arose, and came to Ethey were afraid of the
Chaldees.

25:27 And it came to pass in the sertieth year of the
captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfon the
seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king ofn the year that he began to reign did lift up the head of
Jehoiachin kh out of prison; 25:28 And he spake kindly to
him, and set his throne throne of the kings that were with
him in Babylon; 25:29 And changed hgarments: and he did eat
bread continually before him all the days of 

25:30 And his allowance was a continual allowance given him of the
kly rate for every day, all the days of his life.




The First Book oficles


1:1 Adam, Sheth, Enosh, 1:2 Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 1:3 Henoelah, Lamech, 1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

1:5 The sons of Japhe, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
he sons of Gomer; Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

1:7 And the san; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.

1:8 The sons of Ham; Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.

1:9 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilaha, and Raamah,
and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.nd Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be mighty upon the earth.

1:11 And at Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
1:12 And Pathrusim, m, (of whom came the Philistines,) and
Caphthorim.

1:13 And Canaan behis firstborn, and Heth, 1:14 The Jebusite
also, and the Amorite, and hite, 1:15 And the Hivite, and
the Arkite, and the Sinite, 1:16 And th, and the Zemarite,
and the Hamathite.

1:17 The sons of Shem; Elam, aand Arphaxad, and Lud, and
Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mesh And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.

1:19 And unto Ebertwo sons: the name of the one was Peleg;
because in his days the earthed: and his brother’s name was
Joktan.

1:20 And Joktan begat Almodaleph, and Hazarmaveth, and
Jerah, 1:21 Hadoram also, and Uzal, and Diknd Ebal, and
Abimael, and Sheba, 1:23 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobase
were the sons of Joktan.

1:24 Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 1:25 Eber, P 1:26 Serug, Nahor,
Terah, 1:27 Abram; the same is Abraham.

1:28 The aham; Isaac, and Ishmael.

1:29 These are their generations: The firsthmael, Nebaioth;
then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 1:30 Mishma, and a,
Hadad, and Tema, 1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the soshmael.

1:32 Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine: she bared Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the
sons ; Sheba, and Dedan.

1:33 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, annd Abida,
and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.

1:34 And AbrIsaac. The sons of Isaac; Esau and Israel.

1:35 The sons of Esau; Elieuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and
Korah.

1:36 The sons of Eliphaz; Temar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz,
and Timna, and Amalek.

1:37 The sons of th, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.

1:38 And the sons of Seir; Lotan, andnd Zibeon, and Anah,
and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan.

1:39 And the sn; Hori, and Homam: and Timna was Lotan’s
sister.

1:40 The sons of an, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and
Onam.

and the sons of Zibeon;Anah.

1:41 The sons of Anah; Dishon. And the sons of Dishon; Amram, a and Ithran, and Cheran.

1:42 The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, an The sons of
Dishan; Uz, and Aran.

1:43 Now these are the kings that in the land of Edom before
any king reigned over the children of Israee son of Beor:
and the name of his city was Dinhabah.

1:44 And when Bad, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned
in his stead.

1:45 And wb was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites
reigned in his stead.
when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smote
Midian in thf Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his
city was Avith.

1:4 Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

1:48 And wh was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned
in his stead.

1:49 aul was dead, Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in
his stead.

1:50 alhanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead: and the
name of his city was Pai; and his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the
daughter of Matred,ughter of Mezahab.

1:51 Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; h, duke
Aliah, duke Jetheth, 1:52 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 1:54 Duke Magdiel, duke Iram.
Theseukes of Edom.

2:1 These are the sons of Israel; Reuben, Simeon, Levi,,
Issachar, and Zebulun, 2:2 Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad,.

2:3 The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah: which three were bim of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the
firstborn of Jevil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew
him.

2:4 And Tamar his dauaw bore him Pharez and Zerah. All the
sons of Judah were five.

2:5 Thof Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul.

2:6 And the sons of Zerah; Zimri, and EHeman, and Calcol,
and Dara: five of them in all.

2:7 And the sons ofhar, the troubler of Israel, who
transgressed in the thing accursed.

e sons of Ethan; Azariah.

2:9 The sons also of Hezron, that were born; Jerahmeel, and
Ram, and Chelubai.

2:10 And Ram begat Amminadab; and begat Nahshon, prince of
the children of Judah; 2:11 And Nahshon begand Salma begat
Boaz, 2:12 And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse, 2se
begat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the
4 Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, 2:15 Ozem the
sixth, David t 2:16 Whose sisters were Zeruiah, and
Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiahand Joab, and Asahel,
three.

2:17 And Abigail bare Amasa: and the fatsa was Jether the
Ishmeelite.

2:18 And Caleb the son of Hezron begat of Azubah his wife,
and of Jerioth: her sons are these; Jesher, and ShArdon.

2:19 And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took unto him Ephrath, whm Hur.

2:20 And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezaleel.

2:21 And aften went in to the daughter of Machir the father
of Gilead, whom he marr was threescore years old; and she
bare him Segub.

2:22 And Segub beg who had three and twenty cities in the land
of Gilead.

2:23 And he t, and Aram, with the towns of Jair, from them,
with Kenath, and the to, even threescore cities. All these
belonged to the sons of Machir thef Gilead.

2:24 And after that Hezron was dead in Calebephratah, then on’s wife bare him Ashur the father of Tekoa.

2:25 And the sons of the firstborn of Hezron were, Ram the
firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ahijah.

2:26 Jerahmeel had also another wife, whose name was Atars
the mother of Onam.

2:27 And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerah, Maaz, and
Jamin, and Eker.

2:28 And the sons of Onam were, Shammai,And the sons of
Shammai; Nadab and Abishur.

2:29 And the name of the bishur was Abihail, and she bare him
Ahban, and Molid.

2:30 And the sab; Seled, and Appaim: but Seled died without
children.

2:31 And the aim; Ishi. And the sons of Ishi; Sheshan. And
the children of Sheshan;hlai.

2:32 And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai; Jether, and
J and Jether died without children.

2:33 And the sons of Jonathan; Pelaza. These were the sons
of Jerahmeel.

2:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, ers. And Sheshan had a
servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.

2:heshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and
she bare hi2:36 And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad, 2:37 And Zabad
beand Ephlal begat Obed, 2:38 And Obed begat Jehu, and
Jehu begat Azariad Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat
Eleasah, 2:40 And Eleasah begatand Sisamai begat Shallum,
2:41 And Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamilishama.

2:42 Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were, Merstborn, which was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the
fabron.

2:43 And the sons of Hebron; Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and:44 And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam: and Rekem begat
ShamAnd the son of Shammai was Maon: and Maon was the father of
Bethzur.

hah, Caleb’s concubine, bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez:
and Haran b.

2:47 And the sons of Jahdai; Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelhah, and Shaaph.

2:48 Maachah, Caleb’s concubine, bare Sheber, and 
2:49 She bare also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father o, and the father of Gibea: and the daughter of Caleb was
Achsa.

2:50 e the sons of Caleb the son of Hur, the firstborn of
Ephratah; Shobal  of Kirjathjearim.

2:51 Salma the father of Bethlehem, Hareph the fatethgader.

2:52 And Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim had sons; Haroe
of the Manahethites.

2:53 And the families of Kirjathjearim; the Ith the Puhites,
and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came thtes,
and the Eshtaulites, 2:54 The sons of Salma; Bethlehem, and the
Ns, Ataroth, the house of Joab, and half of the
Manahethites, the Zoritnd the families of the scribes which dwelt at Jabez; the
Tirathites, tites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites
that came of Hemath, the he house of Rechab.

3:1 Now these were the sons of David, which were im in
Hebron; the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the se, of Abigail the Carmelitess: 3:2 The third, Absalom the son of
Maachater of Talmai king of Geshur: the fourth, Adonijah
the son of Haggith:fth, Shephatiah of Abital: the sixth,
Ithream by Eglah his wife.

3:4 were born unto him in Hebron; and there he reigned seven
years and six in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three
years.

3:5 And these were bm in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, and
Nathan, and Solomon, four, of e daughter of Ammiel: 3:6
Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphelet, 3:7, and Nepheg,
and Japhia, 3:8 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet,3:9 These were all the sons of David, beside the sons of the
concubinear their sister.

3:10 And Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, Abia his son,on,
Jehoshaphat his son, 3:11 Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash hi12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 3:13 Ahaz
his sonh his son, Manasseh his son, 3:14 Amon his son, Josiah
his son.

3:15 ns of Josiah were, the firstborn Johanan, the second
Jehoiakim, the thah, the fourth Shallum.

3:16 And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his iah his son.

3:17 And the sons of Jeconiah; Assir, Salathiel his son,chiram also, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and
Nedabiand the sons of Pedaiah were, Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the
sons of ZMeshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their
sister: 3:20 And Hashubah, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah,
Jushabhesed, five.

3:21 And the sons o; Pelatiah, and Jesaiah: the sons of
Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the adiah, the sons of
Shechaniah.

3:22 And the sons of Shechaniah; Shemathe sons of Shemaiah;
Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, andsix.

3:23 And the sons of Neariah; Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrika

3:24 And the sons of Elioenai were, Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and
Pelaiub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.

4:1 The sons of Judahz, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.

4:2 And Reaiah the son of at Jahath; and Jahath begat
Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families  Zorathites.

4:3 And these were of the father of Etam; Jezreel, and Id
Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi: 4:4 And Penuelr of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons
of Hur, rn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.

4:5 And Ashur the father of  two wives, Helah and Naarah.

4:6 And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepemeni, and
Haahashtari.

These were the sons of Naarah.

4:7 And the sah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.

4:8 And Coz begat Anub, and nd the families of Aharhel the
son of Harum.

4:9 And Jabez was more hthan his brethren: and his mother
called his name Jabez, saying, Becauhim with sorrow.

4:10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, u
wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand
th me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it
may not grievGod granted him that which he requested.

4:11 And Chelub the brother egat Mehir, which was the father
of Eshton.

4:12 And Eshton begat Bet Paseah, and Tehinnah the father
of Irnahash. These are the men of Rec And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons of
Othniel;th.

4:14 And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab, the fath valley of Charashim; for they were craftsmen.

4:15 And the sons of Con of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam:
and the sons of Elah, even Kenazd the sons of Jehaleleel; Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.

4:17 ons of Ezra were, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and
Jalon: and she barand Shammai, and Ishbah the father of
Eshtemoa.

4:18 And his wife Jehre Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber
the father of Socho, and Jekutather of Zanoah. And these are
the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Phach Mered took.

4:19 And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Nahther
of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.

4:20 And thShimon were, Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, and
Tilon.

And the sons of , Zoheth, and Benzoheth.

4:21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah werather of Lecah,
and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families ofof
them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea, 4:22 And Joki men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion in
Moab, ilehem. And these are ancient things.

4:23 These were the potters, anat dwelt among plants and
hedges: there they dwelt with the king for h

4:24 The sons of Simeon were, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and
S5 Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.

4:26 And the sons  Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei
his son.

4:27 And Shimei hadons and six daughters: but his brethren
had not many children, neithereir family multiply, like to
the children of Judah.

4:28 And they dwesheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual, 4:29
And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, a, 4:30 And at Bethuel, and at
Hormah, and at Ziklag, 4:31 And at Bethmand Hazarsusim, and
at Bethbirei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cihe reign
of David.

4:32 And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, RimmoAshan, five cities: 4:33 And all their villages that were round about
bitations, and their
genealogy.

4:34 And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and J Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of
Asiel, 4:36 bah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah,
and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah, 4:37 And Ziza the son of Shiphi,
the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiahhe son of Shimri, the son of
Shemaiah; 4:38 These mentioned by their nrinces in their
families: and the house of their fathers increased gre39 And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side
of  to seek pasture for their flocks.

4:40 And they found fat pasture and the land was wide, and
quiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwe old.

4:41 And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah kinh, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were found
there, ad them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their
rooms: because there re there for their flocks.

4:42 And some of them, even of the sons ofive hundred men,
went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiariah,
and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.

4:43 And they smoteAmalekites that were escaped, and
dwelt there unto this day.

5:1 Now e sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was the
firstborn; bch as he defiled his father’s bed, his
birthright was given unto theoseph the son of Israel: and
the genealogy is not to be reckoned afterght.

5:2 For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the r; but the birthright was Joseph’s:) 5:3 The sons, I say, of
Reuben rn of Israel were, Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and
Carmi.

5:4 The sonshemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
5:5 Micah his son, Reaia Baal his son, 5:6 Beerah his son,
whom Tilgathpilneser king of Assyriway captive: he was
prince of the Reubenites.

5:7 And his brethren byilies, when the genealogy of their
generations was reckoned, were the l, and Zechariah, 5:8
And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the dwelt
in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baalmeon: 5:9 And eastward he inhabthe entering in of the wilderness from the river Euphrates:
because the were multiplied in the land of Gilead.

5:10 And in the days of Saul war with the Hagarites, who
fell by their hand: and they dwelt in theroughout all the
east land of Gilead.

5:11 And the children of Gad dwgainst them, in the land of
Bashan unto Salcah: 5:12 Joel the chief, a the next, and
Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.

5:13 And their brethrenhouse of their fathers were, Michael,
and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Joachan, and Zia, and Heber,
seven.

5:14 These are the children of Abihn of Huri, the son of
Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, tJeshishai,
the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz; 5:15 Ahi the son of Abdie
of Guni, chief of the house of their fathers.

5:16 And they dwelt inn Bashan, and in her towns, and in all
the suburbs of Sharon, upon thes.

5:17 All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham dah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.

5:18 The sons of Reuthe Gadites, and half the tribe of
Manasseh, of valiant men, men able ckler and sword, and to
shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were four ousand seven
hundred and threescore, that went out to the war.

5:19 Ade war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish,
and Nodab.

5:20 Are helped against them, and the Hagarites were
delivered into their ha that were with them: for they cried
to God in the battle, and he was of them; because they put
their trust in him.

5:21 And they took awayle; of their camels fifty thousand,
and of sheep two hundred and fifty and of asses two
thousand, and of men an hundred thousand.

5:22 For down many slain, because the war was of God. And
they dwelt in their sl the captivity.

5:23 And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh  the land:
they increased from Bashan unto Baalhermon and Senir, and uermon.

5:24 And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, e and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah,
and Jahd men of valour, famous men, and heads of the house
of their fathers.

hey transgressed against the God of their fathers, and went
a whoring ods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed
before them.

5:26 A of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of
Assyria, and the spirihpilneser king of Assyria, and he
carried them away, even the Reubenit Gadites, and the half
tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Hara,
and to the river Gozan, unto this day.

6:1 The sons of Lev Kohath, and Merari.

6:2 And the sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, and HeUzziel.

6:3 And the children of Amram; Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. lso of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

6:4 Eleazar beg, Phinehas begat Abishua, 6:5 And Abishua
begat Bukki, and Bukki begat And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and
Zerahiah begat Meraioth, 6:7 Meraioth be, and Amariah begat
Ahitub, 6:8 And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok bega6:9 And
Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan, 6:10 And JohAzariah, (he it is that executed the priest’s office in the
temple tbuilt in Jerusalem:) 6:11 And Azariah begat
Amariah, and Amariah begat:12 And Ahitub begat Zadok, and
Zadok begat Shallum, 6:13 And Shallum ah, and Hilkiah begat
Azariah, 6:14 And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Serehozadak,
6:15 And Jehozadak went into captivity, when the LORD carrieJudah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

6:16 The sons of Lom, Kohath, and Merari.

6:17 And these be the names of the sons of Geni, and Shimei.

6:18 And the sons of Kohath were, Amram, and Izhar, aand
Uzziel.

6:19 The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. And these are s
of the Levites according to their fathers.

6:20 Of Gershom; Libni hhath his son, Zimmah his son, 6:21
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah haterai his son.

6:22 The sons of Kohath; Amminadab his son, Korah hisr his
son, 6:23 Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his sahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.

6:25ons of Elkanah; Amasai, and Ahimoth.

6:26 As for Elkanah: the sons ofophai his son, and Nahath
his son, 6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his sonhis son.

6:28 And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni, and Abiah sons of Merari; Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza
his son, 6a his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.

6:31 And these are they w set over the service of song in the
house of the LORD, after that theest.

6:32 And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernhe congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of
theerusalem: and then they waited on their office according
to their ordee are they that waited with their children. Of the sons
of the Kohathi a singer, the son of Joel, the son of
Shemuel, 6:34 The son of Elkanaof Jeroham, the son of
Eliel, the son of Toah, 6:35 The son of Zuph, tlkanah, the
son of Mahath, the son of Amasai, 6:36 The son of Elkanah,of
Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah, 6:37 The son of
Tahon of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, 6:38
The son of Izn of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of
Israel.

6:39 And his brotherho stood on his right hand, even Asaph
the son of Berachiah, the son o6:40 The son of Michael, the
son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah, 6:4of Ethni, the son
of Zerah, the son of Adaiah, 6:42 The son of Ethan,  Zimmah,
the son of Shimei, 6:43 The son of Jahath, the son of Gershomn
of Levi.

6:44 And their brethren the sons of Merari stood on the leEthan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch, 6:45 The
habiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah, 6:46 The son
of Amzi, Bani, the son of Shamer, 6:47 The son of Mahli,
the son of Mushi, the i, the son of Levi.

6:48 Their brethren also the Levites were appointl manner of
service of the tabernacle of the house of God.

6:49 But Ahis sons offered upon the altar of the burnt
offering, and on the altase, and were appointed for all the
work of the place most holy, and toonement for Israel,
according to all that Moses the servant of God had.

6:50 And these are the sons of Aaron; Eleazar his son, Phinehas hishua his son, 6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his
son, 6:52 is son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son, 6:53
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz h54 Now these are their dwelling places throughout their castles in
the of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites:
for theirs w.

6:55 And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbound about it.

6:56 But the fields of the city, and the villages therve
to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

6:57 And to the sons of Aaron they ities of Judah, namely,
Hebron, the city of refuge, and Libnah with he and Jattir,
and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs, 6:58 And Hilen with her
Debir with her suburbs, 6:59 And Ashan with her suburbs, and
Bethshem suburbs: 6:60 And out of the tribe of Benjamin;
Geba with her suburbsth with her suburbs, and Anathoth with
her suburbs. All their cities t their families were thirteen
cities.

6:61 And unto the sons of Kohatere left of the family of
that tribe, were cities given out of the halamely, out of
the half tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.

6:62 Anons of Gershom throughout their families out of the
tribe of Issachar,f the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe
of Naphtali, and out of theManasseh in Bashan, thirteen
cities.

6:63 Unto the sons of Merari wer throughout their
families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of thebe of Gad, and
out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.

6:64 And tn of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with
their suburbs.

6:65 gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah,
and out of the the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe
of the children of Benjacities, which are called by their
names.

6:66 And the residue of the f the sons of Kohath had cities
of their coasts out of the tribe of Ep67 And they gave unto them, of the cities of refuge, Shechem in
mount th her suburbs; they gave also Gezer with her suburbs,
6:68 And Jokmeasuburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs,
6:69 And Aijalon with her subGathrimmon with her suburbs:
6:70 And out of the half tribe of Manasseth her suburbs, and
Bileam with her suburbs, for the family of the reme sons of
Kohath.

6:71 Unto the sons of Gershom were given out of thethe half
tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with her suburbs, and Ashther suburbs: 6:72 And out of the tribe of Issachar; Kedesh with
her surath with her suburbs, 6:73 And Ramoth with her
suburbs, and Anem withs: 6:74 And out of the tribe of
Asher; Mashal with her suburbs, and Abr suburbs, 6:75 And
Hukok with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbsout of
the tribe of Naphtali; Kedesh in Galilee with her suburbs, and her suburbs, and Kirjathaim with her suburbs.

6:77 Unto the rest of t of Merari were given out of the
tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with her sub with her suburbs:
6:78 And on the other side Jordan by Jericho, on th of
Jordan, were given them out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the
w with her suburbs, and Jahzah with her suburbs, 6:79
Kedemoth also witbs, and Mephaath with her suburbs: 6:80
And out of the tribe of Gad; Rlead with her suburbs, and
Mahanaim with her suburbs, 6:81 And Heshbonuburbs, and
Jazer with her suburbs.

7:1 Now the sons of Issachar werePuah, Jashub, and
Shimrom, four.

7:2 And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, and and Jeriel, and Jahmai,
and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father to wit, of
Tola: they were valiant men of might in their generations;er was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and six
hundred.

 sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael,
and Obadial, Ishiah, five: all of them chief men.

7:4 And with them, by their g, after the house of their
fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, sity thousand men:
for they had many wives and sons.

7:5 And their bretall the families of Issachar were valiant
men of might, reckoned in algenealogies fourscore and seven
thousand.

7:6 The sons of Benjamin; Becher, and Jediael, three.

7:7 And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi,l, and Jerimoth,
and Iri, five; heads of the house of their fathers, mof
valour; and were reckoned by their genealogies twenty and two thousirty and four.

7:8 And the sons of Becher; Zemira, and Joash, and Elilioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and
Alameth.are the sons of Becher.

7:9 And the number of them, after their genear
generations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of
valonty thousand and two hundred.

7:10 The sons also of Jediael; Bilhan: ns of Bilhan; Jeush,
and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethanhish, and
Ahishahar.

7:11 All these the sons of Jediael, by the headsathers,
mighty men of valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundred
t to go out for war and battle.

7:12 Shuppim also, and Huppim, the chIr, and Hushim, the
sons of Aher.

7:13 The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, and Jezer, and Shallum,
the sons of Bilhah.

7:14 The sons of Manasse whom she bare: (but his concubine
the Aramitess bare Machir the fathed: 7:15 And Machir took
to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whoss name was
Maachah;) and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Z
had daughters.

7:16 And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a son, and shis
name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons and Rakem.

7:17 And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of e
son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.

7:18 And his sister Hammolekethd, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.

7:19 And the sons of Shemidah were, Ahiahechem, and Likhi, and
Aniam.

7:20 And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelahered his son, and Tahath
his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his snd Zabad his
son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom theGath
that were born in that land slew, because they came down to take  cattle.

7:22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his bre
to comfort him.

7:23 And when he went in to his wife, she conceived,a son,
and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his ho (And his daughter was Sherah, who built Bethhoron the nether, and
the Uzzensherah.)  7:25 And Rephah was his son, also
Resheph, and Telah hd Tahan his son.

7:26 Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son his son, Jehoshuah his son.

7:28 And their possessions and habitatBethel and the towns
thereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer,towns
thereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Gaza and the tf: 7:29 And by the borders of the children of Manasseh,
Bethshean and  Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns,
Dor and her towns. In tt the children of Joseph the son of
Israel.

7:30 The sons of Asher; Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and
Serah their sister.

7:31 And the soah; Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father of
Birzavith.

7:32 And Hebphlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their
sister.

7:33 And the solet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These
are the children of JaphleAnd the sons of Shamer; Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.

7:35 Andf his brother Helem; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh,
and Amal.

7:36 ThZophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and
Imrah, 7:37 Beze, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and
Beera.

7:38 And the sons  Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.

7:39 And the sons of Ulla; Arah, andand Rezia.

7:40 All these were the children of Asher, heads of their 
house, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes. And theroughout the genealogy of them that were apt to the war and
to battle  and six thousand men.

8:1 Now Benjamin begat Bela his firstborn, Ashecond, and
Aharah the third, 8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth the sons of Bela were, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud, 8:4 And
Abishua,  and Ahoah, 8:5 And Gera, and Shephuphan, and
Huram.

8:6 And these ar of Ehud: these are the heads of the fathers
of the inhabitants of Geb removed them to Manahath: 8:7 And
Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he remand begat Uzza, and
Ahihud.

8:8 And Shaharaim begat children in the coab, after he had
sent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.

8:egat of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and
Malcham, 8:1, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons,
heads of the fathers.

f Hushim he begat Abitub, and Elpaal.

8:12 The sons of Elpaal; Eber, and Shamed, who built Ono,
and Lod, with the towns thereof: 8:13 Beria Shema, who were
heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Aijalon, way the
inhabitants of Gath: 8:14 And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth, 8:15, and Ader, 8:16 And Michael, and Ispah, and Joha,
the sons of Beriah;zeki, and
Heber, 8:18 Ishmerai also, and Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;
8:19 And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi, 8:20 And Elienai, and Zilthai,
and Eliel, 8:21 And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the f
Shimhi; 8:22 And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel, 8:23 And Abdon, and
Z Hanan, 8:24 And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah, 8:25
And Iphedeial, the sons of Shashak; 8:26 And Shamsherai,
and Shehariah, and Athalid Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri,
the sons of Jeroham.

8:28 These wef the fathers, by their generations, chief men.

These dwelt in JerusaAnd at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon; whose wife’s name was
MaacAnd his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and
Baal, and Nadab, 8or, and Ahio, and Zacher.

8:32 And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And these awith their
brethren in Jerusalem, over against them.

8:33 And Ner begKish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan,
and Malchishua, and Abinadabaal.

8:34 And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begat 5 And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and
Ahaz.begat Jehoadah; and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, and
Azmaveth, and Zimri; ad Zimri begat Moza, 8:37 And Moza begat Binea:
Rapha was his son, Elea, Azel his son: 8:38 And Azel had
six sons, whose names are these, Azreru, and Ishmael, and
Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these wereof Azel.

8:39 And the sons of Eshek his brother were, Ulam his firstbh the second, and Eliphelet the third.

8:40 And the sons of Ulam weren of valour, archers, and had
many sons, and sons’ sons, an hundred  All these are of the
sons of Benjamin.

9:1 So all Israel were reckonenealogies; and, behold, they were
written in the book of the kings ofd Judah, who were carried
away to Babylon for their transgression.

9:irst inhabitants that dwelt in their possessions in their
cities were,ites, the priests, Levites, and the Nethinims.

9:3 And in Jerusalem ddren of Judah, and of the
children of Benjamin, and of the children ofand Manasseh;
9:4 Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son ohe
son of Bani, of the children of Pharez the son of Judah.

9:5 And oonites; Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.

9:6 And of the sons of Ze and their brethren, six hundred
and ninety.

9:7 And of the sons of BSallu the son of Meshullam, the son
of Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah,  son of Jeroham,
and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshon of
Shephathiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah; 9:9 And theiraccording to their generations, nine hundred and fifty and
six. All the chief of the fathers in the house of their
fathers.

9:10 And of theJedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin, 9:11 And
Azariah the son of Hilkia of Meshullam, the son of Zadok,
the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitur of the house of God;
9:12 And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of  son of
Malchijah, and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah,  Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer; 9:13 And
their eads of the house of their fathers, a thousand and
seven hundred and tvery able men for the work of the
service of the house of God.

9:14 ALevites; Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of
Azrikam, the son of H of the sons of Merari; 9:15 And
Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Maton of Micah, the son
of Zichri, the son of Asaph; 9:16 And Obadiah theemaiah, the
son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son oson of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.

9:17rters were, Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman,
and their bretlum was the chief; 9:18 Who hitherto waited in
the king’s gate eastwere porters in the companies of the
children of Levi.

9:19 And Shalluf Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of
Korah, and his brethren, of th his father, the Korahites,
were over the work of the service, keeperstes of the
tabernacle: and their fathers, being over the host of the Leepers of the entry.

9:20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the rulm in time
past, and the LORD was with him.

9:21 And Zechariah the sonemiah was porter of the door of
the tabernacle of the congregation.

9ese which were chosen to be porters in the gates were two
hundred and se were reckoned by their genealogy in their
villages, whom David and  seer did ordain in their set
office.

9:23 So they and their childrenersight of the gates of the
house of the LORD, namely, the house of thle, by wards.

9:24 In four quarters were the porters, toward the eastrth,
and south.

9:25 And their brethren, which were in their villagesome
after seven days from time to time with them.

9:26 For these Leviour chief porters, were in their set
office, and were over the chambersuries of the house of God.

9:27 And they lodged round about the housecause the charge
was upon them, and the opening thereof every morningto
them.

9:28 And certain of them had the charge of the ministering vt they should bring them in and out by tale.

9:29 Some of them also wted to oversee the vessels, and all
the instruments of the sanctuary, ine flour, and the wine,
and the oil, and the frankincense, and the sp And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the
spices.
attithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of
Shallum the Kohad the set office over the things that were
made in the pans.

9:32 Ar of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, were
over the shewepare it every sabbath.

9:33 And these are the singers, chief of the  the Levites,
who remaining in the chambers were free: for they were ethat work day and night.

9:34 These chief fathers of the Levites wereoughout their
generations; these dwelt at Jerusalem.

9:35 And in Gibethe father of Gibeon, Jehiel, whose wife’s
name was Maachah: 9:36 Anborn son Abdon, then Zur, and
Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab.

9:3, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.

9:38 And Mikloth begat Shimeay also dwelt with their
brethren at Jerusalem, over against their bret9 And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan,
ana, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

9:40 And the son of Jonathan was Meribberibbaal begat Micah.

9:41 And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Meahrea, and
Ahaz.

9:42 And Ahaz begat Jarah; and Jarah begat Alemeth, th, and
Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza; 9:43 And Moza begat Binea; and Reson, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.

9:44 And Azel had six sons, whosethese, Azrikam, Bocheru,
and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and H were the sons
of Azel.

10:1 Now the Philistines fought against Israe men of Israel
fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain iboa.

10:2 And the Philistines followed hard after Saul, and after histhe Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the
sons 10:3 And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him,
awounded of the archers.

10:4 Then said Saul to his armourbearer, Draw, and thrust me
through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and at his
armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. So Saul took a s fell upon it.

10:5 And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead,ikewise on the sword, and died.

10:6 So Saul died, and his three sonshis house died
together.

10:7 And when all the men of Israel that weralley saw that
they fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, then tk
their cities, and fled: and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
t came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to
strip the s they found Saul and his sons fallen in mount
Gilboa.

10:9 And when tipped him, they took his head, and his
armour, and sent into the land listines round about, to
carry tidings unto their idols, and to the pe0 And they put his armour in the house of their gods, and fastened
hishe temple of Dagon.

10:11 And when all Jabeshgilead heard all that thes had
done to Saul, 10:12 They arose, all the valiant men, and took ady of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh,
aneir bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.

10:13 So Sar his transgression which he committed against
the LORD, even against the LORD, which he kept not, and
also for asking counsel of one that har spirit, to enquire
of it; 10:14 And enquired not of the LORD: thereew him, and
turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.

11:1 Thenl gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying,
Behold, we are thythy flesh.

11:2 And moreover in time past, even when Saul was king, t
that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD thy God said
 Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be ruler
over my peo.

11:3 Therefore came all the elders of Israel to the king to Hebron;made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; and
they anointedg over Israel, according to the word of the
LORD by Samuel.

11:4 And all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus; where
the Jebusites wereabitants of the land.

11:5 And the inhabitants of Jebus said to Davidlt not come
hither. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which y
of David.

11:6 And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites firs
chief and captain. So Joab the son of Zeruiah went first up, and was
:7 And David dwelt in the castle; therefore they called it the city
of1:8 And he built the city round about, even from Millo round about:
anired the rest of the city.

11:9 So David waxed greater and greater: fhosts was
with him.

11:10 These also are the chief of the mighty men  David had, who
strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, and wrael,
to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning I:11 And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had;
Jashobeamonite, the chief of the captains: he lifted up his
spear against threeain by him at one time.

11:12 And after him was Eleazar the son of Doohite, who was
one of the three mighties.

11:13 He was with David at  and there the Philistines were
gathered together to battle, where wasf ground full of
barley; and the people fled from before the Philistin And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, and
delivered itthe Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a
great deliverance.

11:1e of the thirty captains went down to the rock to David,
into the cavem; and the host of the Philistines encamped in
the valley of Rephaim.
David was then in the hold, and the Philistines’ garrison
was then am.

11:17 And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink er of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!  11:18 And
the threeugh the host of the Philistines, and drew water
out of the well of Betat was by the gate, and took it, and
brought it to David: but David wonk of it, but poured it
out to the LORD.

11:19 And said, My God forbihat I should do this thing:
shall I drink the blood of these men that heir lives in
jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brourefore he would not drink it.

These things did these three mightiest. Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three: for
lifting ur against three hundred, he slew them, and had a
name among the three. the three, he was more honourable than the two; for he was
their captt he attained not to the first three.

11:22 Benaiah the son of Jehoiaof a valiant man of
Kabzeel, who had done many acts; he slew two lionl Moab:
also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in a snowy day.

11:slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits
high; and in thes hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam; and
he went down to him wi, and plucked the spear out of the
Egyptian’s hand, and slew him witpear.

11:24 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had theg the three mighties.

11:25 Behold, he was honourable among the thirtined not to
the first three: and David set him over his guard.

11:26 aliant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother of
Joab, Elhanan thedo of Bethlehem, 11:27 Shammoth the
Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, 11:2son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Abiezer the Antothite, 11:29 Sibbecai the HIlai the
Ahohite, 11:30 Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baatophathite, 11:31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah, that pertained
to  of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, 11:32 Hurai of
the brooks of Gathe Arbathite, 11:33 Azmaveth the
Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, sons of Hashem the
Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite, m the son
of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, 11:36 Hepher thite, Ahijah the Pelonite, 11:37 Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai
the son o11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of
Haggeri, 11:39 Zelmonite, Naharai the Berothite, the
armourbearer of Joab the son of Zer Ira the Ithrite, Gareb
the Ithrite, 11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad thhlai, 11:42
Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reud
thirty with him, 11:43 Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the
M11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of
Hothan the 1:45 Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his
brother, the Tizite, 11:4Mahavite, and Jeribai, and
Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah t, 11:47 Eliel,
and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.

12:1 Now these aret came to David to Ziklag, while he yet
kept himself close because of on of Kish: and they were
among the mighty men, helpers of the war.

1ere armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and
the left inones and shooting arrows out of a bow, even of
Saul’s brethren of Be2:3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the
Gibeatheziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah,
and Jehu the Ant4 And Ismaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and
over tirty; and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad
the Gederat Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and
Shemariah, and Shephatiah the , 12:6 Elkanah, and Jesiah, and
Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, th, 12:7 And Joelah, and
Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.

12:8 Aadites there separated themselves unto David into the
hold to the wild of might, and men of war fit for the
battle, that could handle shieldr, whose faces were like
the faces of lions, and were as swift as the the mountains;
12:9 Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the thirshmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth, 12:11 Attai the sixth,
Eliel h, 12:12 Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth, 12:13
Jeremiah the tennai the eleventh.

12:14 These were of the sons of Gad, captains of th of the
least was over an hundred, and the greatest over a thousand.

are they that went over Jordan in the first month, when it
had overflobanks; and they put to flight all them of the
valleys, both toward the toward the west.

12:16 And there came of the children of Benjamin anthe hold
unto David.

12:17 And David went out to meet them, and answed unto
them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart sh unto you: but if ye be come to betray me to mine enemies, seeing
therong in mine hands, the God of our fathers look thereon,
and rebuke it.en the spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains,
and he  are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse:
peace, peace be und peace be to thine helpers; for thy God
helpeth thee.

Then David rec, and made them captains of the band.

12:19 And there fell some of MaDavid, when he came with the
Philistines against Saul to battle: but t them not: for the
lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him ag, He
will fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.

12:2nt to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and
Jozabad, and Jd Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and
Zilthai, captains of the thousaere of Manasseh.

12:21 And they helped David against the band of the  they
were all mighty men of valour, and were captains in the host.

1t that time day by day there came to David to help him,
until it was at, like the host of God.

12:23 And these are the numbers of the bands ready armed to
the war, and came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingl to
him, according to the word of the LORD.

12:24 The children of Jure shield and spear were six
thousand and eight hundred, ready armed tr.

12:25 Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valour for the war,e hundred.

12:26 Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundrenites, and with him were
three thousand and seven hundred; 12:28 And Zadok, a young man mighty
of valour, and of his father’s house twenty and two captains.

12:29 And of the children of Benjamin, the kindredaul, three
thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept t of
the house of Saul.

12:30 And of the children of Ephraim twenty theight
hundred, mighty men of valour, famous throughout the house of ths.

12:31 And of the half tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, which wsed by name, to come and make David king.

12:32 And of the children o which were men that had
understanding of the times, to know what Isrado; the heads
of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were atandment.

12:33 Of Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in wal instruments of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank: they
wereuble heart.

12:34 And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them and spear thirty and seven thousand.

12:35 And of the Danites expert ty and eight thousand and
six hundred.

12:36 And of Asher, such as weo battle, expert in war, forty
thousand.

12:37 And on the other side  of the Reubenites, and the
Gadites, and of the half tribe of Manassehmanner of
instruments of war for the battle, an hundred and twenty tho38 All these men of war, that could keep rank, came with a perfect
heaon, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest
also of Israert to make David king.

12:39 And there they were with David three day eating and drinking:
for their brethren had prepared for them.

12:40they that were nigh them, even unto Issachar and
Zebulun and Naphtali,read on asses, and on camels, and on
mules, and on oxen, and meat, meaf figs, and bunches of
raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep: for there
was joy in Israel.

13:1 And David consulted with the captsands and hundreds,
and with every leader.

13:2 And David said unto aregation of Israel, If it seem
good unto you, and that it be of the LO let us send abroad
unto our brethren every where, that are left in alael, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are in
their suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us:
13:3 And let us brine ark of our God to us: for we enquired
not at it in the days of Saul. all the congregation said that they would do so: for the
thing was ri eyes of all the people.

13:5 So David gathered all Israel together,  of Egypt even
unto the entering of Hemath, to bring the ark of God frjearim.

13:6 And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is, tarim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of
God the Lwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is
called on it.

13:7 And t the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of
Abinadab: and Uzza aave the cart.

13:8 And David and all Israel played before God with alght,
and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with
td with cymbals, and with trumpets.

13:9 And when they came unto the toor of Chidon, Uzza put
forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen s:10 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smote
h he put his hand to the ark: and there he died before God.

13:11 And ispleased, because the LORD had made a breach
upon Uzza: wherefore thacalled Perezuzza to this day.

13:12 And David was afraid of God that g, How shall I bring
the ark of God home to me?  13:13 So David broughe ark home to
himself to the city of David, but carried it aside into of
Obededom the Gittite.

13:14 And the ark of God remained with the fededom in his
house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Ob
all that he had.

14:1 Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to Daviber of
cedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.

14:d perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over
Israel, for his  lifted up on high, because of his people
Israel.

14:3 And David tooks at Jerusalem: and David begat more sons
and daughters.

14:4 Now the names of his children which he had in
Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab,and Solomon, 14:5 And Ibhar,
and Elishua, and Elpalet, 14:6 And Nogah,g, and Japhia, 14:7
And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

14:8 Ae Philistines heard that David was anointed king over
all Israel, all tines went up to seek David. And David heard
of it, and went out again14:9 And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of
R14:10 And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the
PhiAnd wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD
said unto him, I will deliver them into thine hand.

14:11 So they came up to BaalpeDavid smote them there. Then
David said, God hath broken in upon mine  mine hand like the
breaking forth of waters: therefore they called ththat place
Baalperazim.

14:12 And when they had left their gods thereve a
commandment, and they were burned with fire.

14:13 And the Phili again spread themselves abroad in the
valley.

14:14 Therefore David again of God; and God said unto him, Go
not up after them; turn away fand come upon them over
against the mulberry trees.

14:15 And it shal thou shalt hear a sound of going in the
tops of the mulberry trees, thou shalt go out to battle: for
God is gone forth before thee to smiteof the Philistines.

14:16 David therefore did as God commanded him: a smote the
host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.

14:17 A of David went out into all lands; and the LORD
brought the fear of hi nations.

15:1 And David made him houses in the city of David, and prace for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.

15:2 Then David saght to carry the ark of God but the
Levites: for them hath the LORD chto carry the ark of God, and to
minister unto him for ever.

15:3 And hered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up
the ark of the LORplace, which he had prepared for it.

15:4 And David assembled the chiaron, and the Levites: 15:5
Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, anren an hundred
and twenty: 15:6 Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chiebrethren two hundred and twenty: 15:7 Of the sons of Gershom; Joel thehis brethren an hundred and thirty: 15:8 Of the sons of
Elizaphan; Shehief, and his brethren two hundred: 15:9 Of
the sons of Hebron; Eliel  and his brethren fourscore: 15:10
Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab thd his brethren an
hundred and twelve.

15:11 And David called for Zadohar the priests, and for the
Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, She Eliel, and
Amminadab, 15:12 And said unto them, Ye are the chief of ts
of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, thating up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place that
I have prit.

15:13 For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God ma upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.

15:14 So thand the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up
the ark of the LORD ael.

15:15 And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon ters with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the
word RD.

15:16 And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint thei to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries and
harps an sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.

15:17 So the Levites appn the son of Joel; and of his
brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; anons of Merari their
brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; 15:18 And witir
brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and
Sheand Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah,
and Mattithiahheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel,
the porters.

15:19 So t Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound
with cymbals of brasnd Zechariah, and Aziel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and El Maaseiah, and
Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth; 15:21 And Mattithipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with
harpsminith to excel.

15:22 And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for sstructed
about the song, because he was skilful.

15:23 And Berechiah h were doorkeepers for the ark.

15:24 And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat,neel, and Amasai, and
Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priestswith the
trumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah were
s for the ark.

15:25 So David, and the elders of Israel, and the capthousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of
f Obededom with joy.

15:26 And it came to pass, when God helped the L bare the
ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven buleven rams.

15:27 And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, andevites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master
of with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of
linen.

15:28 Trael brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD
with shouting, andd of the cornet, and with trumpets, and
with cymbals, making a noise wries and harps.

15:29 And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenantORD came
to the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looki window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him in
he16:1 So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the
teid had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrifices
and peace offore God.

16:2 And when David had made an end of offering the burnt ofd the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the
LORD.
he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every
one a lod, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.

16:4 And he appoiain of the Levites to minister before the
ark of the LORD, and to recothank and praise the LORD God
of Israel: 16:5 Asaph the chief, and nexechariah, Jeiel, and
Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliaiah, and
Obededom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asapha
sound with cymbals; 16:6 Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests with
ontinually before the ark of the covenant of God.

16:7 Then on that dlivered first this psalm to thank the
LORD into the hand of Asaph and n.

16:8 Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, make known hisg the people.

16:9 Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of alndrous
works.

16:10 Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them at
seek the LORD.

16:11 Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his facey.

16:12 Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wondersudgments of his mouth; 16:13 O ye seed of Israel his servant,
ye childob, his chosen ones.

16:14 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are  earth.

16:15 Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which heto a thousand generations; 16:16 Even of the covenant which
he made wiam, and of his oath unto Isaac; 16:17 And hath
confirmed the same to J law, and to Israel for an
everlasting covenant, 16:18 Saying, Unto thve the land of
Canaan, the lot of your inheritance; 16:19 When ye wereven
a few, and strangers in it.

16:20 And when they went from nation  and from one kingdom
to another people; 16:21 He suffered no man to dng: yea, he
reproved kings for their sakes, 16:22 Saying, Touch not mid,
and do my prophets no harm.

16:23 Sing unto the LORD, all the eartth from day to day
his salvation.

16:24 Declare his glory among the hs marvellous works among
all nations.

16:25 For great is the LORD, anto be praised: he also is to
be feared above all gods.

16:26 For all f the people are idols: but the LORD made the
heavens.

16:27 Glory ane in his presence; strength and gladness are
in his place.

16:28 GiveORD, ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
LORD glory and strength.e unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an
offering, and coim: worship the LORD in the beauty of
holiness.

16:30 Fear before himarth: the world also shall be stable,
that it be not moved.

16:31 Lets be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let men
say among the nation reigneth.

16:32 Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fice, and all that is therein.

16:33 Then shall the trees of the wood t the presence of the
LORD, because he cometh to judge the earth.

16:thanks unto the LORD; for he is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever. say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us
together, and s from the heathen, that we may give thanks to
thy holy name, and glorraise.

16:36 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel for ever and ever. Andople said, Amen, and praised the LORD.

16:37 So he left there before  the covenant of the LORD
Asaph and his brethren, to minister before tinually, as
every day’s work required: 16:38 And Obededom with theiren,
threescore and eight; Obededom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah s: 16:39 And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests,
before the of the LORD in the high place that was at
Gibeon, 16:40 To offer burgs unto the LORD upon the altar of
the burnt offering continually mornening, and to do
according to all that is written in the law of the LOhe
commanded Israel; 16:41 And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rre chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the
LORD, becrcy endureth for ever; 16:42 And with them Heman
and Jeduthun with trucymbals for those that should make a
sound, and with musical instrumen And the sons of Jeduthun
were porters.

16:43 And all the people depa man to his house: and David
returned to bless his house.

17:1 Now itss, as David sat in his house, that David said
to Nathan the prophet, l in an house of cedars, but the ark
of the covenant of the LORD remai curtains.

17:2 Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine God is with thee.

17:3 And it came to pass the same night, that the wcame to
Nathan, saying, 17:4 Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith ou shalt not build me an house to dwell in: 17:5 For I have
not dwelt se since the day that I brought up Israel unto this
day; but have gonet, and from one tabernacle to
another.

17:6 Wheresoever I have walkedel, spake I a word to any
of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded tove ye not built me an house of cedars?  17:7 Now therefore thus
shalt  of hosts, I
took thee from the sheepcote, even from following the shet be ruler over my people Israel: 17:8 And I have been with
thee whiththou hast walked, and have cut off all thine
enemies from before thee, made thee a name like the name of
the great men that are in the earthso I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plant
them, anl dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more;
neither shall the  wickedness waste them any more, as at
the beginning, 17:10 And since hat I commanded judges to be
over my people Israel. Moreover I will suhine enemies.
Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an7:11 And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou
muswith thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after
thee, which shaly sons; and I will establish his kingdom.

17:12 He shall build me an nd I will stablish his throne for
ever.

17:13 I will be his father, al be my son: and I will not
take my mercy away from him, as I took it hat was before
thee: 17:14 But I will settle him in mine house and in  for
ever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.

17:15 Ac all these words, and according to all this vision,
so did Nathan speaid.

17:16 And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said,  LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me
hitherto? yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God;
for thou hast also shy servant’s house for a great while to
come, and hast regarded me ao the estate of a man of high
degree, O LORD God.

17:18 What can Davire to thee for the honour of thy servant?
for thou knowest thy servant LORD, for thy servant’s sake, and according to thine own
heart, hase all this greatness, in making known all these
great things.

17:20 Oere is none like thee, neither is there any God beside
thee, accordingat we have heard with our ears.

17:21 And what one nation in the earthy people Israel, whom
God went to redeem to be his own people, to makame of
greatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before e whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?  17:22 For thy people
Israel dmake thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD,
becamest their God.

1ore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spoken
concerning thy servncerning his house be established for
ever, and do as thou hast said.
24 Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified for
everhe LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to
Israel: and let t David thy servant be established before
thee.

17:25 For thou, O my Gold thy servant that thou wilt build
him an house: therefore thy servand in his heart to pray
before thee.

17:26 And now, LORD, thou art Gos goodness
unto thy servant: 17:27 Now therefore let it please thee to be before thee for ever: for thou
blessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.

18:1 Now after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines,
and subdued them, and took Gath and her towns out of the hand of the
Philistines.

18:2 And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became David’s servants, and
brought gifts.

18:3 And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went
to stablish his dominion by the river Euphrates.

18:4 And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand
horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: David also houghed all the
chariot horses, but reserved of them an hundred chariots.

18:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of
Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.

18:6 Then David put garrisons in Syriadamascus; and the Syrians became
David’s servants, and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved David
whithersoever he went.

18:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of
Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

18:8 Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer,
brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea,
and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.

18:9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the
host of Hadarezer king of Zobah; 18:10 He sent Hadoram his son to king
David, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he
had fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war
with Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and
brass.

18:11 Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silver
and the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, and
from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines,
and from Amalek.

18:12 Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the
valley of salt eighteen thousand.

18:13 And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became
David’s servants. Thus the LORD preserved David wh he went.

18:14 So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgmetice among all his people.

18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was overand Jehoshaphat
the son of Ahilud, recorder.

18:16 And Zadok the son and Abimelech the son of Abiathar,
were the priests; and Shavsha was s7 And Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Peld the sons of
David were chief about the king.

19:1 Now it came to pahis, that Nahash the king of the
children of Ammon died, and his son rhis stead.

19:2 And David said, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the sh, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sent
messengerst him concerning his father. So the servants of
David came into the lachildren of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort
him.

19:3 But the princes of tldren of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest
thou that David doth honour thythat he hath sent comforters
unto thee?  are not his servants come unt to search, and to
overthrow, and to spy out the land?  19:4 Whereforek David’s
servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in trd by their buttocks, and sent them away.

19:5 Then there went certaid David how the men were served.
And he sent to meet them: for the mently ashamed. And the
king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be  then
return.

19:6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had mlves
odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand
silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of
Mesopotamia, and out chah, and out of Zobah.

19:7 So they hired thirty and two thousand chd the king of
Maachah and his people; who came and pitched before Medee
children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, anttle.

19:8 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the hosthty men.

19:9 And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle fore the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were by
themsen the field.

19:10 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against ore and
behind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel, and put themagainst the Syrians.

19:11 And the rest of the people he delivered und of Abishai
his brother, and they set themselves in array against thef
Ammon.

19:12 And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I hee.

19:13 Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly ple, and for the cities of our God: and let the LORD do that
which is  sight.

19:14 So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh befans unto the battle; and they fled before him.

19:15 And when the chimon saw that the Syrians were fled,
they likewise fled before Abishai , and entered into the
city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

19:16 And wyrians saw that they were put to the worse before
Israel, they sent me and drew forth the Syrians that were
beyond the river: and Shophach tn of the host of Hadarezer
went before them.

19:17 And it was told Dahe gathered all Israel, and passed
over Jordan, and came upon them, anbattle in array against
them. So when David had put the battle in arrathe Syrians,
they fought with him.

19:18 But the Syrians fled before and David slew of the
Syrians seven thousand men which fought in chariorty
thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.

1he servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the
worse before Israel, they made peace with David, and became his
servants: neither wou Syrians help the children of Ammon any
more.

20:1 And it came to pasfter the year was expired, at the time
that kings go out to battle, Joth the power of the army, and
wasted the country of the children of Amn, and came and besieged
Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And J Rabbah, and
destroyed it.

20:2 And David took the crown of their kin his head, and
found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precs in
it; and it was set upon David’s head: and he brought also excee spoil out of the city.

20:3 And he brought out the people that were cut them with
saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dwith all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the
pened to Jerusalem.

20:4 And it came to pass after this, that there aroGezer
with the Philistines; at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite slethat was of the children of the giant: and they were subdued.

20:5 An war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son
of Jair slew Lahmher of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear
staff was like a weaver’s be And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great
staturengers and toes were four and twenty, six on each
hand, and six on eachhe also was the son of the giant.

20:7 But when he defied Israel, Jon son of Shimea David’s
brother slew him.

20:8 These were born unto n Gath; and they fell by the hand
of David, and by the hand of his ser1 And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number
IsraAnd David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go,
number Isreersheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them
to me, that I may k:3 And Joab answered, The LORD make his people an hundred times so
manhey be: but, my lord the king, are they not all my
lord’s servants? doth my lord require this thing? why will
he be a cause of trespass to1:4 Nevertheless the king’s
word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Jd, and went
throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.

21:5 And Jo sum of the number of the people unto David. And
all they of Israel weand thousand and an hundred thousand
men that drew sword: and Judah wahundred threescore and ten
thousand men that drew sword.

21:6 But Levamin counted he not among them: for the king’s
word was abominable t:7 And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote
Israel.
David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I have
done this tnow, I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy
servant; for I have dolishly.

21:9 And the LORD spake unto Gad, David’s seer, saying, 21
tell David, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things:
c one of them, that I may do it unto thee.

21:11 So Gad came to David,nto him, Thus saith the LORD,
Choose thee 21:12 Either three years’  three months to be
destroyed before thy foes, while that the sword ofmies
overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of the LORD, even tnce, in the land, and the angel of the LORD destroying
throughout all sts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself what
word I shall bring agthat sent me.

21:13 And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: l now
into the hand of the LORD; for very great are his mercies: but lall into the hand of man.

21:14 So the LORD sent pestilence upon Israere fell of
Israel seventy thousand men.

21:15 And God sent an angel salem to destroy it: and as he
was destroying, the LORD beheld, and he him of the evil, and
said to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, ine hand.
And the angel of the LORD stood by the threshingfloor of Ornusite.

21:16 And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the Lbetween the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his
hand str over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of
Israel, who were clothedth, fell upon their faces.

21:17 And David said unto God, Is it not Inded the people
to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and doneed;
but as for these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I praLORD my God, be on me, and on my father’s house; but not on
thy peopey should be plagued.

21:18 Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad o David, that
David should go up, and set up an altar unto the LORD inhingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.

21:19 And David went up at the sayinhich he spake in the
name of the LORD.

21:20 And Ornan turned back, a angel; and his four sons with
him hid themselves. Now Ornan was thres

21:21 And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and wethe threshingfloor, and bowed himself to David with his face to
the gr1:22 Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of this
threshingflo may build an altar therein unto the LORD: thou
shalt grant it me for ice: that the plague may be stayed
from the people.

21:23 And Ornan savid, Take it to thee, and let my lord the
king do that which is good s: lo, I give thee the oxen also
for burnt offerings, and the threshints for wood, and the
wheat for the meat offering; I give it all.

21:2 David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for
the full pricell not take that which is thine for the LORD,
nor offer burnt offeringcost.

21:25 So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels weight.

21:26 And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offerfferings and peace offerings, and called upon the LORD; and he
answereheaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering.

21:27 And the LORD ce angel; and he put up his sword again
into the sheath thereof.

21:28ime when David saw that the LORD had answered him in
the threshingfloo the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.

21:29 For the tabernacle of hich Moses made in the
wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offeringthat season
in the high place at Gibeon.

21:30 But David could not got to enquire of God: for he was
afraid because of the sword of the angLORD.

22:1 Then David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and thaltar of the burnt offering for Israel.

22:2 And David commanded to gther the strangers that were in
the land of Israel; and he set masons ught stones to build
the house of God.

22:3 And David prepared iron ie for the nails for the doors
of the gates, and for the joinings; and undance without
weight; 22:4 Also cedar trees in abundance: for the Zid they
of Tyre brought much cedar wood to David.

22:5 And David said,y son is young and tender, and the house
that is to be builded for the be exceeding magnifical, of
fame and of glory throughout all countrieherefore now make
preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly befath.

22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to buile for the LORD God of Israel.

22:7 And David said to Solomon, My son,, it was in my mind
to build an house unto the name of the LORD my Godthe word
of the LORD came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantst made great wars: thou shalt not build an house unto my name,
becaus shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.

22:9 Behold, a son shall thee, who shall be a man of rest;
and I will give him rest from all hound about: for his
name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and qto Israel
in his days.

22:10 He shall build an house for my name; andbe my son, and
I will be his father; and I will establish the throne oom
over Israel for ever.

22:11 Now, my son, the LORD be with thee; anhou, and build
the house of the LORD thy God, as he hath said of thee.ly the LORD give thee wisdom and understanding, and give thee
charge csrael, that thou mayest keep the law of the LORD
thy God.

22:13 Then  prosper, if thou takest heed to fulfil the
statutes and judgments whiD charged Moses with concerning
Israel: be strong, and of good courage dread not, nor be dismayed.

22:14 Now, behold, in my trouble I have red for the house of the
LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold, andd thousand
talents of silver; and of brass and iron without weight; fo
abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and thou mayest add22:15 Moreover there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers and
woone and timber, and all manner of cunning men for every
manner of workf the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is
no numberefore, and be doing, and the LORD be with thee.

22:17 David also comd all the princes of Israel to help Solomon
his son, saying, 22:18 Is RD your God with you? and hath he
not given you rest on every side? fogiven the inhabitants of
the land into mine hand; and the land is subd the LORD, and
before his people.

22:19 Now set your heart and your s the LORD your God;
arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of theto bring
the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy vessels of the house that is to be built to the name of the LORD.

23:1 So when Dld and full of days, he made Solomon his son
king over Israel.

23:2 Ared together all the princes of Israel, with the
priests and the Levitow the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and
upward: umber by their polls, man by man, was thirty and
eight thousand.

23:4twenty and four thousand were to set forward the work
of the house of nd six thousand were officers and judges:
23:5 Moreover four thousand rs; and four thousand praised
the LORD with the instruments which I mavid, to praise
therewith.

23:6 And David divided them into courses amns of Levi,
namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

23:7 Of the GershoniLaadan, and Shimei.

23:8 The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, an and Joel,
three.

23:9 The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, andhree.
These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.

23:10 And the soi were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and
Beriah.

These four were the sons.

23:11 And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush andd not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning,
according to ths house.

23:12 The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel3:13 The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated,
that sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for
ever, to burn ince the LORD, to minister unto him, and to
bless in his name for ever.

2ncerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the
tribe of LevThe sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.

23:16 Of the sons of Gehebuel was the chief.

23:17 And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah thnd Eliezer
had none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very manf the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.

23:19 Of the sons of Hebrone first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourOf the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first and Jesiah the second.

23:21 TMerari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli;
Eleazar, and Kish.

23:22ar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their
brethren the sons ok them.

23:23 The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, threese were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers;
even the chhe fathers, as they were counted by number of names
by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the
LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.

23:25 For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto his
people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever: 23:26 And also unto
the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels
of it for the service thereof.

23:27 For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from
twenty yeand above: 23:28 Because their office was to wait on
the sons of Aaronervice of the house of the LORD, in the
courts, and in the chambers, apurifying of all holy things,
and the work of the service of the house23:29 Both for the
shewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering the
unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and forh is fried, and for all manner of measure and size; 23:30 And to
standning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at
even: 23:31 And to ll burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in the
sabbaths, in the new moons, a set feasts, by number,
according to the order commanded unto them, cobefore the
LORD: 23:32 And that they should keep the charge of the tab
the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge ofof Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the
LORD.

24:se are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of
Aaron; Nadab, aEleazar, and Ithamar.

24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their fathhad no
children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest’s24:3 And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar,
anh of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in
their service. there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than
of the somar, and thus were they divided. Among the sons of
Eleazar there were ef men of the house of their fathers,
and eight among the sons of Ithaing to the house of their
fathers.

24:5 Thus were they divided by lott with another; for the
governors of the sanctuary, and governors of t God, were of
the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.

24:6 Aah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites,
wrote them befg, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and
Ahimelech the son of Abi before the chief of the fathers of
the priests and Levites: one princhold being taken for
Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.

24:7 Now the came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
24:8 The third to Harurth to Seorim, 24:9 The fifth to
Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 24:enth to Hakkoz, the
eighth to Abijah, 24:11 The ninth to Jeshuah, the ecaniah,
24:12 The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 24:13 Tth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 24:14 The fifteenth
to Bilgteenth to Immer, 24:15 The seventeenth to Hezir, the
eighteenth to AphThe nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth
to Jehezekel, 24:17 The oneeth to Jachin, the two and
twentieth to Gamul, 24:18 The three and tweDelaiah, the four
and twentieth to Maaziah.

24:19 These were the ordef them in their service to come into
the house of the LORD, according anner, under Aaron their
father, as the LORD God of Israel had command20 And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of
Amram;  the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah.

24:21 Concerning Rehabiah: of the soniah, the first was
Isshiah.

24:22 Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of thehelomoth; Jahath.

24:23 And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amaecond,
Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

24:24 Of the sons of hah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir.

24:25 The brother of Michah was Ithe sons of Isshiah;
Zechariah.

24:26 The sons of Merari were Mahli a the sons of Jaaziah;
Beno.

24:27 The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Benoam, and Zaccur, and
Ibri.

24:28 Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sonConcerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.

24:30 The sons also oahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These
were the sons of the Levites afterof their fathers.

24:31 These likewise cast lots over against their be sons of
Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimthe chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the
principaover against their younger brethren.

25:1 Moreover David and the capthe host separated to the
service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, ahun, who
should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbalsmber of the workmen according to their service was: 25:2 Of the sons
oaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of
Asaph undes of Asaph, which prophesied according to the
order of the king.

25:3n: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and
Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, hiah, six, under the hands of their
father Jeduthun, who prophesied wi to give thanks and to
praise the LORD.

25:4 Of Heman: the sons of Heah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel,
and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathti, and Romamtiezer,
Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth: 25se were the
sons of Heman the king’s seer in the words of God, to li
horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

25:6 were under the hands of their father for song in the
house of the LORDbals, psalteries, and harps, for the
service of the house of God, accohe king’s order to Asaph,
Jeduthun, and Heman.

25:7 So the number oth their brethren that were instructed
in the songs of the LORD, even were cunning, was two hundred
fourscore and eight.

25:8 And they castrd against ward, as well the small as the
great, the teacher as the sc9 Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to
Geda his brethren and sons were twelve: 25:10 The third
to Zaccur, he, hissons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:11 The
fourth to Izri, he, hisd his brethren, were twelve: 25:12 The
fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons brethren, were twelve: 25:13
The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, andhren, were twelve:
25:14 The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and en, were
twelve: 25:15 The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his bwere twelve: 25:16 The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his
breth twelve: 25:17 The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and
his brethren, we 25:18 The eleventh to Azareel, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were t19 The twelfth to Hashabiah,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twel0 The thirteenth to
Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelhe
fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelThe fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelvehe sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve:he seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were t25 The eighteenth to Hanani,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twel6 The nineteenth to
Mallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twe The
twentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelvThe one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were :29 The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons,
and his brethren,: 25:30 The three and twentieth to
Mahazioth, he, his sons, and his bre twelve: 25:31 The four
and twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, athren, were
twelve.

26:1 Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of es was
Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.

26:2 And theshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn,
Jediael the second, Zebadiah, Jathniel the fourth, 26:3 Elam
the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioeventh.

26:4 Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborbad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and
Nethaneel th26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for
d him.

26:6 Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled thre house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.

26:7 TheShemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad,
whose brethren were s Elihu, and Semachiah.

26:8 All these of the sons of Obededom: they aons and their
brethren, able men for strength for the service, were thnd
two of Obededom.

26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, stronhteen.

26:10 Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri t(for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him
the chie1 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah
the fourth: all th brethren of Hosah were thirteen.

26:12 Among these were the divisionorters, even among the
chief men, having wards one against another, toin the house
of the LORD.

26:13 And they cast lots, as well the smallat, according to
the house of their fathers, for every gate.

26:14 Aneastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his
son, a wise counselcast lots; and his lot came out
northward.

26:15 To Obededom southwarhis sons the house of Asuppim.

26:16 To Shuppim and Hosah the lot camtward, with the gate
Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, warward.

26:17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southwary, and toward Asuppim two and two.

26:18 At Parbar westward, four at way, and two at Parbar.

26:19 These are the divisions of the porters sons of Kore,
and among the sons of Merari.

26:20 And of the Levites, over the treasures of the house
of God, and over the treasures of the things.

26:21 As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gersdan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.

26:2 of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were
over the treasurhouse of the LORD.

26:23 Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebd the
Uzzielites: 26:24 And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Mosler of the treasures.

26:25 And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah hiseshaiah his
son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith 6:26 Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of
tated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the
captainsusands and hundreds, and the captains of the host,
had dedicated.

26: the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain
the house of 

26:28 And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and
Abn of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and
whosoever hated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith,
and of his brethrenOf the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward
businessel, for officers and judges.

26:30 And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah arethren, men of
valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers amof
Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORDthe service of the king.

26:31 Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the cn among the
Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. Iieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there
were fng them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.

26:32 And his brethr valour, were two thousand and seven
hundred chief fathers, whom king e rulers over the
Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasery
matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.

27:1 Now the c Israel after their number, to wit, the chief
fathers and captains of and hundreds, and their officers
that served the king in any matter ofes, which came in and
went out month by month throughout all the monthar, of
every course were twenty and four thousand.

27:2 Over the firsr the first month was Jashobeam the son
of Zabdiel: and in his course y and four thousand.

27:3 Of the children of Perez was the chief of atains of the
host for the first month.

27:4 And over the course of thnth was Dodai an Ahohite, and
of his course was Mikloth also the rulerurse likewise were
twenty and four thousand.

27:5 The third captain ofor the third month was Benaiah the
son of Jehoiada, a chief priest: acourse were twenty and
four thousand.

27:6 This is that Benaiah, who  among the thirty, and above
the thirty: and in his course was Ammizab

27:7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother nd Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twenty
and four 7:8 The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite:
acourse were twenty and four thousand.

27:9 The sixth captain for the  was Ira the son of Ikkesh
the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty ousand.

27:10 The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez theof the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty
and four tho:11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the
Hushathitarhites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

27:12 The nn for the ninth month was Abiezer the
Anetothite, of the Benjamites: acourse were twenty and four
thousand.

27:13 The tenth captain for theth was Maharai the
Netophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course wend four
thousand.

27:14 The eleventh captain for the eleventh month w the
Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were tfour thousand.

27:15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heetophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and four
thousaFurthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of the
Reubenites washe son of Zichri: of the Simeonites,
Shephatiah the son of Maachah: 27 Levites, Hashabiah the son
of Kemuel: of the Aaronites, Zadok: 27:18 , Elihu, one of the
brethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Mi19 Of
Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the el: 27:20 Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah:
of thbe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah: 27:21 Of the
half tribe of Mailead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: of
Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abne Dan, Azareel the son of
Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes

27:23 But David took not the number of them from twenty years old ancause the LORD had said he would increase Israel like to the
stars of s.

27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished notthere fell wrath for it against Israel; neither was the number
put in  the chronicles of king David.

27:25 And over the king’s treasures as Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and
over the storehouses in the fields, es, and in the
villages, and in the castles, was Jehonathan the son of27:26
And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the  Ezri the son of Chelub: 27:27 And over the vineyards was Shimei
the Rover the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars
was Zabdi the  27:28 And over the olive trees and the
sycomore trees that were in ths was Baalhanan the Gederite:
and over the cellars of oil was Joash: 2ver the herds that
fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over tat were
in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai: 27:30 Over the ca was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses was Jehdeiah the
Meronoth And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite. All
these were the rulersbstance which was king David’s.

27:32 Also Jonathan David’s unclensellor, a wise man, and a
scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was ing’s sons: 27:33
And Ahithophel was the king’s counsellor: and Hurchite was
the king’s companion: 27:34 And after Ahithophel was Jehoson
of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the general of the king’s army was1 And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the
trhe captains of the companies that ministered to the king
by course, anains over the thousands, and captains over the
hundreds, and the stewall the substance and possession of
the king, and of his sons, with theand with the mighty men,
and with all the valiant men, unto Jerusalem.en David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, my
brethr people: As for me, I had in mine heart to build an
house of rest for  the covenant of the LORD, and for the
footstool of our God, and had mdy for the building: 28:3 But
God said unto me, Thou shalt not build a my name, because
thou hast been a man of war, and hast shed blood.

2t the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of
my father toover Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah to
be the ruler; and of of Judah, the house of my father; and
among the sons of my father he o make me king over all
Israel: 28:5 And of all my sons, (for the LORD me many
sons,) he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne odom of the LORD over Israel.

28:6 And he said unto me, Solomon thy sol build my house and
my courts: for I have chosen him to be my son, ane his
father.

28:7 Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, ifstant
to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.

28:8 No in the sight of all Israel the congregation of the
LORD, and in the a our God, keep and seek for all the
commandments of the LORD your God:ay possess this good land,
and leave it for an inheritance for your chr you for ever.

28:9 And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of t and
serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the Leth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the
thoughts him, he will be found of thee; but if thou
forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.

28:10 Take heed now; for the LORD hath chosen thee to build an house
for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.

28:11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, and
of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper
chamberreof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place
of the mercy2 And the pattern of all that he had by the
spirit, of the courts of tf the LORD, and of all the
chambers round about, of the treasuries of of God, and of
the treasuries of the dedicated things: 28:13 Also for of
the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of of the LORD, and for all the vessels of service in the house
of the L:14 He gave of gold by weight for things of gold, for all
instruments ner of service; silver also for all instruments
of silver by weight, fstruments of every kind of service:
28:15 Even the weight for the cand gold, and for their
lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, a lamps
thereof: and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both forestick, and also for the lamps thereof, according to the use of
every ck.

28:16 And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread, forle; and likewise silver for the tables of silver: 28:17 Also
pure goldleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups: and for the
golden basons he gy weight for every bason; and likewise
silver by weight for every basoer: 28:18 And for the altar of
incense refined gold by weight; and golpattern of the
chariot of the cherubims, that spread out their wings,  the
ark of the covenant of the LORD.

28:19 All this, said David, the me understand in writing by
his hand upon me, even all the works of t.

28:20 And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good
cour it: fear not, nor be dismayed: for the LORD God, even
my God, will be he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee,
until thou hast finished allor the service of the house of
the LORD.

28:21 And, behold, the courspriests and the Levites, even
they shall be with thee for all the serve house of God: and
there shall be with thee for all manner of workman willing
skilful man, for any manner of service: also the princes and ple will be wholly at thy commandment.

29:1 Furthermore David the kino all the congregation,
Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, isg and tender,
and the work is great: for the palace is not for man, buORD
God.

29:2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of gold for things to be made of gold, and the silver for things of
silvee brass for things of brass, the iron for things of
iron, and wood for wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set,
glistering stones, and of dirs, and all manner of precious
stones, and marble stones in abundance.eover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God,
I have n proper good, of gold and silver, which I have given
to the house of r and above all that I have prepared for
the holy house.

29:4 Even thnd talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and
seven thousand talents oilver, to overlay the walls of the
houses withal: 29:5 The gold for thld, and the silver for
things of silver, and for all manner of work toy the hands
of artificers. And who then is willing to consecrate his sis
day unto the LORD?  29:6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes bes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds,
with the he king’s work, offered willingly, 29:7 And gave
for the service of of God of gold five thousand talents and
ten thousand drams, and of sihousand talents, and of brass
eighteen thousand talents, and one hundrd talents of iron.

29:8 And they with whom precious stones were found to the
treasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel the
G.

29:9 Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly,
bec perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD: and
David the king d with great joy.

29:10 Wherefore David blessed the LORD before all tation:
and David said, Blessed be thou, LORD God of Israel our father,nd ever.

29:11 Thine, O LORD is the greatness, and the power, and the the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in
th thine; thine is the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exalted
as head abo:12 Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest over all;
ane hand is power and might; and in thine hand it is to make
great, andtrength unto all.

29:13 Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and prlorious
name.

29:14 But who am I, and what is my people, that we shouto
offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, anown have we given thee.

29:15 For we are strangers before thee, and s as were all
our fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and te
abiding.

29:16 O LORD our God, all this store that we have preparedhee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is all
thin:17 I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast
pleasuretness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart I
have willingly ofthese things: and now have I seen with joy
thy people, which are prese offer willingly unto thee.

29:18 O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and oour fathers, keep
this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of hy
people, and prepare their heart unto thee: 29:19 And give unto Solon a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and
thy s, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for
the which  provision.

29:20 And David said to all the congregation, Now bless tyour
God.

And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fath
bowed down their heads, and worshipped the LORD, and the king.

29:21acrificed sacrifices unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings unto t the morrow after that day, even a thousand
bullocks, a thousand rams,sand lambs, with their drink
offerings, and sacrifices in abundance foel: 29:22 And did
eat and drink before the LORD on that day with great. And
they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anonto the LORD to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest.

29:23 n sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of
David his father, aed; and all Israel obeyed him.

29:24 And all the princes, and the mignd all the sons
likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solog.

29:25 And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of a and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on
any king in Israel.

29:26 Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.d the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; seven
years re Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in
Jerusalem.

29:28 Ann a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour:
and Solomon his soin his stead.

29:29 Now the acts of David the king, first and last, b are
written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathant, and in the book of Gad the seer, 29:30 With all his reign and
his mhe times that went over him, and over Israel, and over
all the kingdomntries.




The Second Book of the Chronicles


1:1 And Solomon the sowas strengthened in his kingdom, and
the LORD his God was with him, an him exceedingly.

1:2 Then Solomon spake unto all Israel, to the captusands
and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every governor in althe chief of the fathers.

1:3 So Solomon, and all the congregation wit to the high
place that was at Gibeon; for there was the tabernacle oegation of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in
the wi1:4 But the ark of God had David brought up from Kirjathjearim to the
 David had prepared for it: for he had pitched a tent for
it at JerusaMoreover the brasen altar, that Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son
of Hu he put before the tabernacle of the LORD: and
Solomon and the congregt unto it.

1:6 And Solomon went up thither to the brasen altar before
which was at the tabernacle of the congregation, and offered a
thousa offerings upon it.

1:7 In that night did God appear unto Solomon, ano him, Ask
what I shall give thee.

1:8 And Solomon said unto God, Thoed great mercy unto David
my father, and hast made me to reign in his 9 Now, O LORD God, let thy promise unto David my father be
establishedhast made me king over a people like the dust of
the earth in multitudive me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in
before ple: for who can judge this thy people, that is so
great?  1:11 And GoSolomon, Because this was in thine heart,
and thou hast not asked rich, or honour, nor the life of
thine enemies, neither yet hast asked lont hast asked wisdom
and knowledge for thyself, that thou mayest judge over whom
I have made thee king: 1:12 Wisdom and knowledge is granted and I will give thee riches, and wealth, and honour, such as none of
tve had that have been before thee, neither shall there any
after thee ike.

1:13 Then Solomon came from his journey to the high place that wn to Jerusalem, from before the tabernacle of the congregation,
and re Israel.

1:14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, which he
plac chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.

1:15 And the king mand gold at Jerusalem as plenteous as
stones, and cedar trees made he amore trees that are in the
vale for abundance.

1:16 And Solomon had hht out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the
king’s merchants received the l a price.

1:17 And they fetched up, and brought forth out of Egypt a or
six hundred shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fiftbrought they out horses for all the kings of the Hittites, and
for the Syria, by their means.

2:1 And Solomon determined to build an house me of the LORD,
and an house for his kingdom.

2:2 And Solomon told oure and ten thousand men to bear
burdens, and fourscore thousand to hewntain, and three
thousand and six hundred to oversee them.

2:3 And Soto Huram the king of Tyre, saying, As thou didst
deal with David my fadidst send him cedars to build him an
house to dwell therein, even so e.

2:4 Behold, I build an house to the name of the LORD my God, to
deto him, and to burn before him sweet incense, and for the
continual shd for the burnt offerings morning and evening,
on the sabbaths, and onoons, and on the solemn feasts of the
LORD our God. This is an ordinanr to Israel.

2:5 And the house which I build is great: for great is oe
all gods.

2:6 But who is able to build him an house, seeing the heaaven of heavens cannot contain him? who am I then, that I should
buildse, save only to burn sacrifice before him?  2:7 Send
me now thereforening to work in gold, and in silver, and in
brass, and in iron, and innd crimson, and blue, and that can
skill to grave with the cunning menith me in Judah and in
Jerusalem, whom David my father did provide.

2lso cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees, out of
Lebanon: for I kno servants can skill to cut timber in
Lebanon; and, behold, my servantswith thy servants, 2:9 Even
to prepare me timber in abundance: for theh I am about to
build shall be wonderful great.

2:10 And, behold, I w thy servants, the hewers that cut
timber, twenty thousand measures ofat, and twenty thousand
measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths nd twenty
thousand baths of oil.

2:11 Then Huram the king of Tyre ansiting, which he sent to
Solomon, Because the LORD hath loved his peopl made thee
king over them.

2:12 Huram said moreover, Blessed be the L Israel, that made
heaven and earth, who hath given to David the king on, endued
with prudence and understanding, that might build an house D, and an house for his kingdom.

2:13 And now I have sent a cunning m with understanding, of
Huram my father’s, 2:14 The son of a woman ohters of Dan,
and his father was a man of Tyre, skilful to work in golilver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in
blue,e linen, and in crimson; also to grave any manner of
graving, and to fery device which shall be put to him, with
thy cunning men, and with tmen of my lord David thy father.

2:15 Now therefore the wheat, and thhe oil, and the wine,
which my lord hath spoken of, let him send unto ts: 2:16 And
we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as thou shalt ne
will bring it to thee in floats by sea to Joppa; and thou shalt carryerusalem.

2:17 And Solomon numbered all the strangers that were in thsrael, after the numbering wherewith David his father had numbered
they were found an hundred and fifty thousand and three
thousand and six :18 And he set threescore and ten thousand of them to be bearers of
bufourscore thousand to be hewers in the mountain, and
three thousand anred overseers to set the people a work.

3:1 Then Solomon began to buise of the LORD at Jerusalem in
mount Moriah, where the Lord appeared uis father, in the
place that David had prepared in the threshingfloor e
Jebusite.

3:2 And he began to build in the second day of the second
the fourth year of his reign.

3:3 Now these are the things wherein Sinstructed for the
building of the house of God. The length by cubits first
measure was threescore cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.

3porch that was in the front of the house, the length of it
was accordieadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the
height was an hundred and t he overlaid it within with pure
gold.

3:5 And the greater house he c fir tree, which he overlaid
with fine gold, and set thereon palm trees.

3:6 And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty: an gold of Parvaim.

3:7 He overlaid also the house, the beams, the postand the walls
thereof, and the doors thereof, with gold; and graved ch the
walls.

3:8 And he made the most holy house, the length whereof wng
to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the breadth thereofits: and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to six
hundred talennd the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And he
overlaid chambers with gold.

3:10 And in the most holy house he made two cheruage work,
and overlaid them with gold.

3:11 And the wings of the cher twenty cubits long: one wing
of the one cherub was five cubits, reachwall of the house:
and the other wing was likewise five cubits, reachiwing of
the other cherub.

3:12 And one wing of the other cherub was fs, reaching to the
wall of the house: and the other wing was five cubioining to
the wing of the other cherub.

3:13 The wings of these cheruead themselves forth twenty
cubits: and they stood on their feet, and s were inward.

3:14 And he made the vail of blue, and purple, and cri fine
linen, and wrought cherubims thereon.

3:15 Also he made before two pillars of thirty and five
cubits high, and the chapiter that was  of each of them was
five cubits.

3:16 And he made chains, as in the d put them on the heads
of the pillars; and made an hundred pomegranatt them on the
chains.

3:17 And he reared up the pillars before the teon the right
hand, and the other on the left; and called the name of tright hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.

4:1 Moreove an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length
thereof, and twenty cubitadth thereof, and ten cubits the
height thereof.

4:2 Also he made a mof ten cubits from brim to brim, round
in compass, and five cubits theereof; and a line of thirty
cubits did compass it round about.

4:3 Anwas the similitude of oxen, which did compass it
round about: ten in ampassing the sea round about. Two rows
of oxen were cast, when it was  It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and
three ard the west, and three looking toward the south, and
three looking toast: and the sea was set above upon them,
and all their hinder parts w
4:5 And the thickness of it was an handbreadth, and the brim of it
lirk of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and it
received and hhousand baths.

4:6 He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right five
on the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for thfering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to
wash in he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, and
set theemple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.

4:8 He made alsos, and placed them in the temple, five on
the right side, and five on nd he made an hundred basons of
gold.

4:9 Furthermore he made the coupriests, and the great court,
and doors for the court, and overlaid th them with brass.

4:10 And he set the sea on the right side of the eaagainst the south.

4:11 And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and. And
Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the
house of God; 4:12 To wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the
chapiters which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two
wreaths to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were on the
top of the pillars; 4:13 And four hundred pomegranates on the two
wreaths;wo rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two
pommels of ths which were upon the pillars.

4:14 He made also bases, and lavers mathe bases; 4:15 One
sea, and twelve oxen under it.

4:16 The pots alsoshovels, and the fleshhooks, and all their
instruments, did Huram his  to king Solomon for the house
of the LORD of bright brass.

4:17 In tf Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground
between Succoth anah.

4:18 Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for of the brass could not be found out.

4:19 And Solomon made all the vewere for the house of God,
the golden altar also, and the tables wherewbread was set;
4:20 Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps, that  burn
after the manner before the oracle, of pure gold; 4:21 And the
f and the lamps, and the tongs, made he of gold, and that
perfect gold; the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons,
and the censers, of purd the entry of the house, the inner
doors thereof for the most holy plhe doors of the house of
the temple, were of gold.

5:1 Thus all the wolomon made for the house of the LORD was
finished: and Solomon broughhe things that David his father
had dedicated; and the silver, and the all the instruments,
put he among the treasures of the house of God.
n Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of
the trihief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto
Jerusalem, to brinrk of the covenant of the LORD out of the
city of David, which is Zionrefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king
in theich was in the seventh month.

5:4 And all the elders of Israel came; vites took up the
ark.

5:5 And they brought up the ark, and the taberhe
congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle, the priests and the Levites bring up.

5:6 Also king Solomon, and allngregation of Israel that were
assembled unto him before the ark, sacreep and oxen, which
could not be told nor numbered for multitude.

5:7riests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD
unto his place, cle of the house, into the most holy place,
even under the wings of thms: 5:8 For the cherubims spread
forth their wings over the place of td the cherubims covered
the ark and the staves thereof above.

5:9 And out the staves of the ark, that the ends of the
staves were seen fromefore the oracle; but they were not
seen without. And there it is unto
5:10 There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of
Israel, whe out of Egypt.

5:11 And it came to pass, when the priests were come ooly
place: (for all the priests that were present were sanctified, andhen wait by course: 5:12 Also the Levites which were the singers,
all  Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their
brethren, beiin white linen, having cymbals and psalteries
and harps, stood at the  the altar, and with them an
hundred and twenty priests sounding with  5:13 It came even
to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one,e sound
to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD; and when they leir voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick,
ande LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth
for ever: that ouse was filled with a cloud, even the house
of the LORD; 5:14 So thatts could not stand to minister by
reason of the cloud: for the glory o had filled the house of
God.

6:1 Then said Solomon, The LORD hath sawould dwell in the
thick darkness.

6:2 But I have built an house of hor thee, and a place for
thy dwelling for ever.

6:3 And the king turne, and blessed the whole congregation
of Israel: and all the congregatrael stood.

6:4 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who his
hands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father Dav, 6:5 Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the
land of ose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build
an house in, that ght be there; neither chose I any man to
be a ruler over my people Isrut I have chosen Jerusalem,
that my name might be there; and have chos be over my
people Israel.

6:7 Now it was in the heart of David my faild an house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

6:8 But the LORDDavid my father, Forasmuch as it was in thine
heart to build an house e, thou didst well in that it was in
thine heart: 6:9 Notwithstanding not build the house; but
thy son which shall come forth out of thy loill build the
house for my name.

6:10 The LORD therefore hath performe that he hath spoken:
for I am risen up in the room of David my fatheret on the
throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the h name of the LORD God of Israel.

6:11 And in it have I put the ark, whe covenant of the
LORD, that he made with the children of Israel.

6:stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all
the congrega and spread forth his hands: 6:13 For
Solomon had made a brasen scaffo of five cubits long, and five
cubits broad, and three cubits high, anit in the midst of
the court: and upon it he stood, and kneeled down uees
before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands
aven.

6:14 And said, O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee n, nor in the earth; which keepest covenant, and shewest mercy
unto th, that walk before thee with all their hearts: 6:15
Thou which hast kehy servant David my father that which thou
hast promised him; and spakthy mouth, and hast fulfilled it
with thine hand, as it is this day.

therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant David
my fatherch thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not
fail thee a man in  sit upon the throne of Israel; yet so
that thy children take heed to to walk in my law, as thou
hast walked before me.

6:17 Now then, O LOsrael, let thy word be verified, which
thou hast spoken unto thy serva
6:18 But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold,
hhe heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less
this house whi built!  6:19 Have respect therefore to the
prayer of thy servant, andupplication, O LORD my God, to
hearken unto the cry and the prayer whiervant prayeth before
thee: 6:20 That thine eyes may be open upon thisy and night,
upon the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest name
there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant prayeth towarce.

6:21 Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant, andople Israel, which they shall make toward this place: hear thou
from tg place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest,
forgive.

6:22 If a ainst his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon him
to make him swear, a come before thine altar in this house;
6:23 Then hear thou from heaveand judge thy servants, by
requiting the wicked, by recompensing his ws own head; and
by justifying the righteous, by giving him according tteousness.

6:24 And if thy people Israel be put to the worse before tbecause they have sinned against thee; and shall return and confess
thd pray and make supplication before thee in this house;
6:25 Then hearm the heavens, and forgive the sin of thy
people Israel, and bring theo the land which thou gavest to
them and to their fathers.

6:26 When  is shut up, and there is no rain, because they
have sinned against th they pray toward this place, and
confess thy name, and turn from thein thou dost afflict
them; 6:27 Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive thy
servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou hast taught them th, wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which
thou hanto thy people for an inheritance.

6:28 If there be dearth in the lan be pestilence, if there
be blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillir enemies
besiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore oer sickness there be: 6:29 Then what prayer or what
supplication soeve made of any man, or of all thy people
Israel, when every one shall knsore and his own grief, and
shall spread forth his hands in this house hear thou from
heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render untn
according unto all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou onlthe hearts of the children of men:) 6:31 That they may fear
thee, to wways, so long as they live in the land which thou
gavest unto our fathMoreover concerning the stranger, which is not of thy people
Israel, bfrom a far country for thy great name’s sake, and
thy mighty hand, aetched out arm; if they come and pray in
this house; 6:33 Then hear the heavens, even from thy
dwelling place, and do according to all that ger calleth to
thee for; that all people of the earth may know thy namr
thee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which t is called by thy name.

6:34 If thy people go out to war against theby the way that
thou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward tich
thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name; 6ear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication,
and mair cause.

6:36 If they sin against thee, (for there is no man which si,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before their
enend they carry them away captives unto a land far off or
near; 6:37 Yetethink themselves in the land whither they are
carried captive, and tuy unto thee in the land of their
captivity, saying, We have sinned, we amiss, and have dealt
wickedly; 6:38 If they return to thee with all t and with
all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither theyied them captives, and pray toward their land, which thou gavest
unto ers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, and
toward the house ve built for thy name: 6:39 Then hear thou
from the heavens, even froming place, their prayer and their
supplications, and maintain their cargive thy people which
have sinned against thee.

6:40 Now, my God, leech thee, thine eyes be open, and let
thine ears be attent unto the pris made in this place.

6:41 Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into thyace, thou,
and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, bith salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.

6:42 O LORD Got away the face of thine anointed: remember
the mercies of David thy s1 Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down
fromnd consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and
the glory of thled the house.

7:2 And the priests could not enter into the house of because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD’s house.

7:3 And he children of Israel saw how the fire came down,
and the glory of the the house, they bowed themselves with
their faces to the ground upon nt, and worshipped, and
praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for endureth for
ever.

7:4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrire the
LORD.

7:5 And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and tnd
oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep: so the king and alle dedicated the house of God.

7:6 And the priests waited on their off Levites also with
instruments of musick of the LORD, which David the made to
praise the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever, when Dav by their ministry; and the priests sounded trumpets before
them, and stood.

7:7 Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and the
fat e offerings, because the brasen altar which Solomon had
made was not aeive the burnt offerings, and the meat
offerings, and the fat.

7:8 Alame time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all
Israel with him, at congregation, from the entering in of
Hamath unto the river of Egyptin the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they kept
the dediche altar seven days, and the feast seven days.

7:10 And on the three eth day of the seventh month he sent
the people away into their tents,merry in heart for the
goodness that the LORD had shewed unto David, amon, and to
Israel his people.

7:11 Thus Solomon finished the house o, and the king’s
house: and all that came into Solomon’s heart to e house of
the LORD, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.

he LORD appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, I
have heard , and have chosen this place to myself for an
house of sacrifice.

7:1t up heaven that there be no rain, or if I command the
locusts to devo, or if I send pestilence among my people;
7:14 If my people, which ary my name, shall humble
themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and tueir wicked
ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their ill heal their land.

7:15 Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears o the prayer
that is made in this place.

7:16 For now have I chosen afied this house, that my name may
be there for ever: and mine eyes andrt shall be there
perpetually.

7:17 And as for thee, if thou wilt wale, as David thy father
walked, and do according to all that I have come, and shalt
observe my statutes and my judgments; 7:18 Then will I st
throne of thy kingdom, according as I have covenanted with David thy
ing, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.

7:19 But  away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments,
which I have set bd shall go and serve other gods, and
worship them; 7:20 Then will I plk them up by the roots out of my
land which I have given them; and thiwhich I have sanctified
for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and  it to be a
proverb and a byword among all nations.

7:21 And this houis high, shall be an astonishment to every
one that passeth by it; so hall say, Why hath the LORD done
thus unto this land, and unto this ho2 And it shall be
answered, Because they forsook the LORD God of theirhich
brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on othd worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he brought
all this them.

8:1 And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Sobuilt the house of the LORD, and his own house, 8:2 That the
cities whad restored to Solomon, Solomon built them, and
caused the children ofdwell there.

8:3 And Solomon went to Hamathzobah, and prevailed again4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities,
whit in Hamath.

8:5 Also he built Bethhoron the upper, and Bethhoron thenced cities, with walls, gates, and bars; 8:6 And Baalath, and all
thees that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the
cities of the and all that Solomon desired to build in
Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, aout all the land of his
dominion.

8:7 As for all the people that weree Hittites, and the
Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, andtes,
which were not of Israel, 8:8 But of their children, who were lefm in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, them
did Soloo pay tribute until this day.

8:9 But of the children of Israel did Se no servants for his
work; but they were men of war, and chief of his and
captains of his chariots and horsemen.

8:10 And these were the cg Solomon’s officers, even two
hundred and fifty, that bare rule ovele.

8:11 And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the ci unto the house that he had built for her: for he said, My wife
shall in the house of David king of Israel, because the
places are holy, wheark of the LORD hath come.

8:12 Then Solomon offered burnt offerings ORD on the altar
of the LORD, which he had built before the porch, 8:1r a
certain rate every day, offering according to the commandment of
Me sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn
feasts, three timeear, even in the feast of unleavened
bread, and in the feast of weeks, feast of tabernacles.

8:14 And he appointed, according to the order is father, the
courses of the priests to their service, and the Levite
charges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty of
evuired: the porters also by their courses at every gate:
for so had Dav of God commanded.

8:15 And they departed not from the commandment ofunto the
priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the

8:16 Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of the
fou the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So the
house of thefected.

8:17 Then went Solomon to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, at the se
the land of Edom.

8:18 And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, and
servants that had knowledge of the sea; and they went with the
servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took thence four hundred and fifty
talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.

9:1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came
to prove Soon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great
company, and caare spices, and gold in abundance, and
precious stones: and when she w Solomon, she communed with
him of all that was in her heart.

9:2 Andold her all her questions: and there was nothing hid
from Solomon whicher not.

9:3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solome house that he had built, 9:4 And the meat of his table, and the
sitt servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and
their apparel; his also, and their apparel; and his ascent
by which he went up into the f the LORD; there was no more
spirit in her.

9:5 And she said to the s a true report which I heard in
mine own land of thine acts, and of t 9:6 Howbeit I believed
not their words, until I came, and mine eyes hit: and, behold,
the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not tthou
exceedest the fame that I heard.

9:7 Happy are thy men, and happe thy servants, which stand
continually before thee, and hear thy wisdessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee to set thee
on his  be king for the LORD thy God: because thy God loved
Israel, to establor ever, therefore made he thee king over
them, to do judgment and jus And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and
of s abundance, and precious stones: neither was there any
such spice as tf Sheba gave king Solomon.

9:10 And the servants also of Huram, and ts of Solomon,
which brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and pones.

9:11 And the king made of the algum trees terraces to the houseD, and to the king’s palace, and harps and psalteries for singers:
are none such seen before in the land of Judah.

9:12 And king Solomon e queen of Sheba all her desire,
whatsoever she asked, beside that whibrought unto the king.
So she turned, and went away to her own land, s servants.

9:13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one ye
hundred and threescore and six talents of gold; 9:14 Beside that whicand merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and
governors of thbrought gold and silver to Solomon.

9:15 And king Solomon made two huets of beaten gold: six
hundred shekels of beaten gold went to one tarAnd three hundred shields made he of beaten gold: three hundred
shekelwent to one shield. And the king put them in the house
of the forest o

9:17 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid itgold.

9:18 And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool oich were fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of the
sittingd two lions standing by the stays: 9:19 And twelve
lions stood there oside and on the other upon the six steps.
There was not the like made ngdom.

9:20 And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of goldthe vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure
gold: n silver; it was not any thing accounted of in the
days of Solomon.

9:e king’s ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram:
every th once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold, and
silver, ivory, andpeacocks.

9:22 And king Solomon passed all the kings of the earth in 
wisdom.

9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of S
hear his wisdom, that God had put in his heart.

9:24 And they broughan his present, vessels of silver, and
vessels of gold, and raiment, hd spices, horses, and mules,
a rate year by year.

9:25 And Solomon haousand stalls for horses and chariots, and
twelve thousand horsemen; wstowed in the chariot cities, and
with the king at Jerusalem.

9:26 Aned over all the kings from the river even unto the
land of the Philistto the border of Egypt.

9:27 And the king made silver in Jerusalem asnd cedar trees
made he as the sycomore trees that are in the low plainance.

9:28 And they brought unto Solomon horses out of Egypt, and outnds.

9:29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are thtten in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of
Ahijah te, and in the visions of Iddo the seer against
Jeroboam the son of Ne And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over
all Israel forty years.

9:31 Aslept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city
of David his fatRehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

10:1 And Rehoboam went to Sheco Shechem were all Israel come
to make him king.

10:2 And it came to  Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was in
Egypt, whither he fled from thef Solomon the king, heard
it, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.

10y sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came and
spake to Reying, 10:4 Thy father made our yoke grievous: now
therefore ease thou e grievous servitude of thy father, and
his heavy yoke that he put upowe will serve thee.

10:5 And he said unto them, Come again unto me afdays. And
the people departed.

10:6 And king Rehoboam took counsel wi men that had stood
before Solomon his father while he yet lived, sayiel
give ye me to return answer to this people?  10:7 And they spake unhim, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, and
speads to them, they will be thy servants for ever.

10:8 But he forsook t which the old men gave him, and took
counsel with the young men that ht up with him, that stood
before him.

10:9 And he said unto them, Whgive ye that we may return
answer to this people, which have spoken tog, Ease somewhat
the yoke that thy father did put upon us?  10:10 And g men
that were brought up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalter the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our
yoke hmake thou it somewhat lighter for us; thus shalt thou
say unto them, Minger shall be thicker than my father’s
loins.

10:11 For whereas my a heavy yoke upon you, I will put more
to your yoke: my father chastith whips, but I will chastise
you with scorpions.

10:12 So Jeroboam a people came to Rehoboam on the third
day, as the king bade, saying, Cto me on the third day.

10:13 And the king answered them roughly; andoam forsook
the counsel of the old men, 10:14 And answered them after e
of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I willto: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise
you with s
10:15 So the king hearkened not unto the people: for the cause was of the LORD might perform his word, which he spake by the hand
of Ahijahnite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

10:16 And when all Israel saw thatwould not hearken unto
them, the people answered the king, saying, Whaave we in
David?  and we have none inheritance in the son of Jesse: ev
your tents, O Israel: and now, David, see to thine own house. So all
to their tents.

10:17 But as for the children of Israel that dwelt ins of
Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

10:18 Then king Rehoboam sentat was over the tribute; and
the children of Israel stoned him with st he died. But king
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, terusalem.

10:19 And Israel rebelled against the house of David unto t11:1 And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the houseand Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men,
which were  to fight against Israel, that he might bring the
kingdom again to Reh:2 But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
1 unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all
Israel in Benjamin, saying, 11:4 Thus saith the LORD, Ye
shall not go up, nor ft your brethren: return every man to
his house: for this thing is doned they obeyed the words of
the LORD, and returned from going against J11:5 And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in
6 He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa, 11:7 And Bethzur,
and dullam, 11:8 And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph, 11:9
And Adoraim, and Ld Azekah, 11:10 And Zorah, and Aijalon,
and Hebron, which are in Judahnjamin fenced cities.

11:11 And he fortified the strong holds, and pu in them, and
store of victual, and of oil and wine.

11:12 And in eve city he put shields and spears, and made
them exceeding strong, havin Benjamin on his side.

11:13 And the priests and the Levites that wersrael resorted
to him out of all their coasts.

11:14 For the Levites suburbs and their possession, and
came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jerhis sons had cast them
off from executing the priest’s office unto t:15 And he
ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devilr
the calves which he had made.

11:16 And after them out of all the tsrael such as set their
hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to to sacrifice
unto the LORD God of their fathers.

11:17 So they streng kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the
son of Solomon strong, three r three years they walked in the
way of David and Solomon.

11:18 And ook him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son
of David to wife, anhe daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;
11:19 Which bare him children; Shamariah, and Zaham.

11:20 And after her he took Maachah the daughtem; which
bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.

11:21 Aoam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his
wives and his (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore
concubines; and begat twenight sons, and threescore
daughters.)  11:22 And Rehoboam made Abijah Maachah the
chief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to mng.

11:23 And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his children
thro the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fenced
city: and he gictual in abundance. And he desired many
wives.

12:1 And it came to pRehoboam had established the kingdom,
and had strengthened himself, hethe law of the LORD, and all
Israel with him.

12:2 And it came to pasthe fifth year of king Rehoboam
Shishak king of Egypt came up against because they had
transgressed against the LORD, 12:3 With twelve hundr, and
threescore thousand horsemen: and the people were without numbere with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the
Ethiopians.he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and came
to JerusaThen came Shemaiah the prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes of
Judae gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak,
and said unto theith the LORD, Ye have forsaken me, and
therefore have I also left you d of Shishak.

12:6 Whereupon the princes of Israel and the king humbles;
and they said, The LORD is righteous.

12:7 And when the LORD saw humbled themselves, the word of
the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, Thebled themselves;
therefore I will not destroy them, but I will grant teliverance; and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by
theishak.

12:8 Nevertheless they shall be his servants; that they may knice, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.

12:9 So Shisha Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away
the treasures of the he LORD, and the treasures of the
king’s house; he took all: he carrio the shields of gold
which Solomon had made.

12:10 Instead of which am made shields of brass, and
committed them to the hands of the chiefrd, that kept the
entrance of the king’s house.

12:11 And when the ed into the house of the LORD, the guard
came and fetched them, and bragain into the guard chamber.

12:12 And when he humbled himself, the he LORD turned from
him, that he would not destroy him altogether: andah
things went well.

12:13 So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in J and reigned:
for Rehoboam was one and forty years old when he began td
he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his
mother’ Naamah an Ammonitess.

12:14 And he did evil, because he prepared not to seek the
LORD.

12:15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, ar written
in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer connealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam
continualAnd Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of Davbijah his son reigned in his stead.

13:1 Now in the eighteenth year ooboam began Abijah to reign
over Judah.

13:2 He reigned three years im. His mother’s name also was
Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibere was war between
Abijah and Jeroboam.

13:3 And Abijah set the battl with an army of valiant men of
war, even four hundred thousand chosenboam also set the
battle in array against him with eight hundred thous men,
being mighty men of valour.

13:4 And Abijah stood up upon mount which is in mount
Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all 5 Ought
ye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom ov to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of
salt?Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the
son of David, isp, and hath rebelled against his lord.

13:7 And there are gathered unn men, the children of Belial,
and have strengthened themselves agains the son of Solomon,
when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and cothstand
them.

13:8 And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the L hand
of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there aregolden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.

13:9 Have ye not caspriests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron,
and the Levites, and have madeafter the manner of the
nations of other lands? so that whosoever comeonsecrate himself
with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may beof them
that are no gods.

13:10 But as for us, the LORD is our God, a not forsaken
him; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are f
Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business: 13:11 And they burnLORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and
sweet incensbread also set they in order upon the pure
table; and the candlestick h the lamps thereof, to burn
every evening: for we keep the charge of our God; but ye have
forsaken him.

13:12 And, behold, God himself is  our captain, and his
priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm agai O children of
Israel, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathe
shall not prosper.

13:13 But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come ad them: so
they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.nd when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and
behind: aed unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with the
trumpets.

13:15 Thof Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah
shouted, it came to pas God smote Jeroboam and all Israel
before Abijah and Judah.

13:16 Andren of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered
them into their hannd Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so
there fein of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.

13:18 Thus the childrewere brought under at that time, and
the children of Judah prevailed, ey relied upon the LORD God
of their fathers.

13:19 And Abijah pursueoboam, and took cities from him,
Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jethe towns thereof,
and Ephraim with the towns thereof.

13:20 Neither am recover strength again in the days of
Abijah: and the LORD struck h died.

13:21 But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, andnty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.

13:22 And the rest of the ac, and his ways, and his
sayings, are written in the story of the proph14:1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land
was quiet 
14:2 And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LOR14:3 For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the
high plarake down the images, and cut down the groves: 14:4
And commanded Judathe LORD God of their fathers, and to do
the law and the commandment.
 he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places
and the ithe kingdom was quiet before him.

14:6 And he built fenced cities in  the land had rest, and
he had no war in those years; because the LORDim rest.

14:7 Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these citiesmake
about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet
before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought
him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and
prospered.

14:8 And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of
Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shi drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were
mighty lour.

14:9 And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with aa thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto
Maresha Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array
in thf Zephathah at Mareshah.

14:11 And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, aRD, it is
nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them t power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy
name nst this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let no
man prevail again14:12 So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;
apians fled.

14:13 And Asa and the people that were with him pursued trar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover
t for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his
host; and theaway very much spoil.

14:14 And they smote all the cities round aboutr the fear of
the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the citiese
was exceeding much spoil in them.

14:15 They smote also the tents oand carried away sheep and
camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusad the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded: 15:2 And
he wento meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all
Judah and Ben LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if
ye seek him, he will b but if ye forsake him, he will
forsake you.

15:3 Now for a long seashath been without the true God, and
without a teaching priest, and wit15:4 But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of
Israught him, he was found of them.

15:5 And in those times there was no im that went out, nor
to him that came in, but great vexations were up inhabitants
of the countries.

15:6 And nation was destroyed of natioity of city: for God did
vex them with all adversity.

15:7 Be ye strore, and let not your hands be weak: for your
work shall be rewarded.

en Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the
prophet, he too and put away the abominable idols out of all
the land of Judah and Bed out of the cities which he had
taken from mount Ephraim, and renewedf the LORD, that was
before the porch of the LORD.

15:9 And he gatherdah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
them out of Ephraim and Manasut of Simeon: for they fell to
him out of Israel in abundance, when tht the LORD his God
was with him.

15:10 So they gathered themselves toerusalem in the third
month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asand they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which
they h seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

15:12 And they entered enant to seek the LORD God of their
fathers with all their heart and wir soul; 15:13 That
whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel sh to
death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

15:14 And thto the LORD with a loud voice, and with
shouting, and with trumpets, anets.

15:15 And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn wiir heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found
of he LORD gave them rest round about.

15:16 And also concerning Maachaher of Asa the king, he
removed her from being queen, because she had ml in a grove:
and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it ook
Kidron.

15:17 But the high places were not taken away out of Israeless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.

15:18 And he broughtouse of God the things that his father
had dedicated, and that he himsedicated, silver, and gold,
and vessels.

15:19 And there was no more e five and thirtieth year of
the reign of Asa.

16:1 In the six and thr of the reign of Asa Baasha king of
Israel came up against Judah, andh, to the intent that he
might let none go out or come in to Asa king 16:2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the
the LORD and of the king’s house, and sent to Benhadad king
of Syrialt at Damascus, saying, 16:3 There is a league
between me and thee, asbetween my father and thy father:
behold, I have sent thee silver and reak thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from mend Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
his armi the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan,
and Abelmaim, andore cities of Naphtali.

16:5 And it came to pass, when Baasha heard ileft off
building of Ramah, and let his work cease.

16:6 Then Asa the all Judah; and they carried away the
stones of Ramah, and the timber herewith Baasha was
building; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and
said unto e thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and not
relied on the LORD threfore is the host of the king of Syria
escaped out of thine hand.

16 the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with very
many chariots an yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD,
he delivered them into thin:9 For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole
earth,mself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is
perfect toward him. hast done foolishly: therefore from
henceforth thou shalt have wars.

Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house;
for he wasith him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed
some of the people th16:11 And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are
writtn the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

16:12 And Asa in the thith year of his reign was diseased
in his feet, until his disease was ereat: yet in his disease
he sought not to the LORD, but to the physici And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth
yeargn.

16:14 And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had madelf in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled
witurs and divers kinds of spices prepared by the
apothecaries’ art: ane a very great burning for him.

17:1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned ad, and strengthened
himself against Israel.

17:2 And he placed forcehe fenced cities of Judah, and set
garrisons in the land of Judah, andies of Ephraim, which
Asa his father had taken.

17:3 And the LORD wasaphat, because he walked in the first
ways of his father David, and sonto Baalim; 17:4 But sought
to the Lord God of his father, and walked ndments, and not
after the doings of Israel.

17:5 Therefore the LORD  the kingdom in his hand; and all
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presentad riches and honour in
abundance.

17:6 And his heart was lifted up iof the LORD: moreover he
took away the high places and groves out of J7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even
to d to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to
Michaiah, to he cities of Judah.

17:8 And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiahniah, and
Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and A Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and
Jehoram

17:9 And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LOm, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and
taught the p0 And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands
thad about Judah, so that they made no war against
Jehoshaphat.

17:11 Al the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and
tribute silver; andans brought him flocks, seven thousand
and seven hundred rams, and sev and seven hundred he goats.

17:12 And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedhe built in Judah
castles, and cities of store.

17:13 And he had much in the cities of Judah: and the men of
war, mighty men of valour, weralem.

17:14 And these are the numbers of them according to the house thers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,
and with  men of valour three hundred thousand.

17:15 And next to him was Jehocaptain, and with him two
hundred and fourscore thousand.

17:16 And n Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly
offered himself unto the LOR him two hundred thousand
mighty men of valour.

17:17 And of Benjaminighty man of valour, and with him
armed men with bow and shield two husand.

17:18 And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and
fhousand ready prepared for the war.

17:19 These waited on the king, bwhom the king put in the
fenced cities throughout all Judah.

18:1 Nowt had riches and honour in abundance, and joined
affinity with Ahab.

fter certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab
killed shen for him in abundance, and for the people that he
had with him, and im to go up with him to Ramothgilead.

18:3 And Ahab king of Israel sashaphat king of Judah, Wilt
thou go with me to Ramothgilead? And he an I am as thou
art, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thr.

18:4 And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I prayhe word of the LORD to day.

18:5 Therefore the king of Israel gathereof prophets four
hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramot
battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will delive the king’s hand.

18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a pre LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?  18:7 And the king of Isnto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whom we may enquire of
the Late him; for he never prophesied good unto me, but
always evil: the saiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat
said, Let not the king say so.

1 king of Israel called for one of his officers, and said,
Fetch quicklhe son of Imla.

18:9 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Jeither
of them on his throne, clothed in their robes, and they sat in 
place at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophetsed before them.

18:10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him ron,
and said, Thus saith the LORD, With these thou shalt push Syria ube consumed.

18:11 And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up ilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand
of the:12 And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him,
saying, e words of the prophets declare good to the king
with one assent; let erefore, I pray thee, be like one of
theirs, and speak thou good.

18:aiah said, As the LORD liveth, even what my God saith,
that will I spe And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him,
Micaiah, sho Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear?
And he said, Go ye up, a and they shall be delivered into
your hand.

18:15 And the king said  many times shall I adjure thee
that thou say nothing but the truth to name of the LORD?
18:16 Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered untains,
as sheep that have no shepherd: and the LORD said, These have let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.

18:17 Andof Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee
that he would not pd unto me, but evil?  18:18 Again he
said, Therefore hear the word of  I saw the LORD sitting upon
his throne, and all the host of heaven sts right hand and
on his left.

18:19 And the LORD said, Who shall entig of Israel, that he
may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one spakeer this
manner, and another saying after that manner.

18:20 Then therut a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will entice him. A said unto him, Wherewith?  18:21
And he said, I will go out, and be arit in the mouth of all
his prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt ennd thou shalt
also prevail: go out, and do even so.

18:22 Now therefod, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the
mouth of these thy prophetsLORD hath spoken evil against
thee.

18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chme near, and smote Micaiah
upon the cheek, and said, Which way went th the LORD from
me to speak unto thee?  18:24 And Micaiah said, Behold,lt see
on that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide th:25 Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him
back e governor of the city, and to Joash the king’s son;
18:26 And say,  the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and
feed him with bread of a and with water of affliction, until
I return in peace.

18:27 And Mic, If thou certainly return in peace, then hath
not the LORD spoken by  said, Hearken, all ye people.

18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshking of Judah went up
to Ramothgilead.

18:29 And the king of Israel shoshaphat, I will disguise
myself, and I will go to the battle; but puthy robes. So the
king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to t

18:30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariore with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save
only with f Israel.

18:31 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariotehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they
cout him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD
helped him; ed them to depart from him.

18:32 For it came to pass, that, when thef the chariots
perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turngain
from pursuing him.

18:33 And a certain man drew a bow at a ventuote the king of
Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore hes
chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of the
h am wounded.

18:34 And the battle increased that day: howbeit the kinl
stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even: the time of the sun going down he died.

19:1 And Jehoshaphat the kinreturned to his house in peace
to Jerusalem.

19:2 And Jehu the son of seer went out to meet him, and
said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest the ungodly, and love
them that hate the LORD? therefore is wrath upon tefore the
LORD.

19:3 Nevertheless there are good things found in thee
hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine
hrt to seek God.

19:4 And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went through
the people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them bthe LORD God of their fathers.

19:5 And he set judges in the land thrll the fenced cities of
Judah, city by city, 19:6 And said to the judgeed what ye
do: for ye judge not for man, but for the LORD, who is wite
judgment.

19:7 Wherefore now let the fear of the LORD be upon you; and
do it: for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respects, nor taking of gifts.

19:8 Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat seevites, and of
the priests, and of the chief of the fathers of Israel,udgment of the LORD, and for controversies, when they returned to
Jeru9:9 And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the
Lfully, and with a perfect heart.

19:10 And what cause soever shall coof your brethren that
dwell in your cities, between blood and blood, band
commandment, statutes and judgments, ye shall even warn them that ass not against the LORD, and so wrath come upon you, and upon
your brthis do, and ye shall not trespass.

19:11 And, behold, Amariah the ch is over you in all matters
of the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmaler of the house
of Judah, for all the king’s matters: also the Levibe
officers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD shall be with 
20:1 It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, and
en of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, came
against Jeto battle.

20:2 Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, T
a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syriahold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.

20:3 And Jehoshaphat  set himself to seek the LORD, and
proclaimed a fast throughout all Ju And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the LORD:
evenl the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.

20:5 And Jehoshapha the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem,
in the house of the LORD, beew court, 20:6 And said, O LORD
God of our fathers, art not thou God iand rulest not thou
over all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thineere not
power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?  20:7hou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before
tIsrael, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for
ever?  20: dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuary
therein for thy name, 0:9 If, when evil cometh upon us, as
the sword, judgment, or pestilencne, we stand before this
house, and in thy presence, (for thy name is ouse,) and cry
unto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and he0 And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir,
whomdest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the
land of Egypt, bned from them, and destroyed them not;
20:11 Behold, I say, how they ro come to cast us out of thy
possession, which thou hast given us to i:12 O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might
against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we
what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.

20:13 And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones,
their wives, and their children.

20:14 Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the
son of Jl, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph,
came the SpiriRD in the midst of the congregation; 20:15
And he said, Hearken ye, alnd ye inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith unto you, Be not afraid
nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude battle is not
yours, but God’s.

20:16 To morrow go ye down againstld, they come up by the
cliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the enrook, before
the wilderness of Jeruel.

20:17 Ye shall not need to fig battle: set yourselves, stand
ye still, and see the salvation of the you, O Judah and
Jerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; to morrow go outhem:
for the LORD will be with you.

20:18 And Jehoshaphat bowed his his face to the ground: and
all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalemre the LORD,
worshipping the LORD.

20:19 And the Levites, of the chilhe Kohathites, and of the
children of the Korhites, stood up to praiseD God of Israel
with a loud voice on high.

20:20 And they rose early rning, and went forth into the
wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went fshaphat stood and
said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusaeve in
the LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his propshall ye prosper.

20:21 And when he had consulted with the people, he singers
unto the LORD, and that should praise the beauty of holiness,ent out before the army, and to say, Praise the LORD; for his mercy
enr ever.

20:22 And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD setnts against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which
were cot Judah; and they were smitten.

20:23 For the children of Ammon and Mup against the
inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy when
they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helpedy another.

20:24 And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wi
they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies
fae earth, and none escaped.

20:25 And when Jehoshaphat and his people ke away the spoil
of them, they found among them in abundance both riche dead
bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for thems than they could carry away: and they were three days in gathering
of  it was so much.

20:26 And on the fourth day they assembled themselvevalley of
Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the namame place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.

20:27 Thturned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and
Jehoshaphat in the forefem, to go again to Jerusalem with
joy; for the LORD had made them to rr their enemies.

20:28 And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and
trumpets unto the house of the LORD.

20:29 And the fear of God was o kingdoms of those countries,
when they had heard that the LORD fought enemies of
Israel.

20:30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for ave him rest
round about.

20:31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: hty and five years
old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty anears in
Jerusalem.

And his mother’s name was Azubah the daughter of
20:32 And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not
frg that which was right in the sight of the LORD.

20:33 Howbeit the hiwere not taken away: for as yet the
people had not prepared their hear God of their fathers.

20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, last, behold,
they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani,tioned in the book of the kings of Israel.

20:35 And after this did Jking of Judah join himself with
Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very w0:36 And he joined
himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: ae the
ships in Eziongaber.

20:37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mophesied against
Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyselfiah,
the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that tt able to go to Tarshish.

21:1 Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathersuried with his
fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reignstead.

21:2 And he had brethren the sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and
and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah: all these
wes of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.

21:3 And their father gave them grea silver, and of gold,
and of precious things, with fenced cities in Juhe kingdom
gave he to Jehoram; because he was the firstborn.

21:4 Nowram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he
strengthened himselfall his brethren with the sword, and
divers also of the princes of IsrJehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign, and
he re years in Jerusalem.

21:6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Isas did the
house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: andt
that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD.

21:7 Howbeit the LORD estroy the house of David, because of
the covenant that he had made wiand as he promised to give a
light to him and to his sons for ever.

2days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion of
Judah, and made king.

21:9 Then Jehoram went forth with his princes, and all his chars
with him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites which
compin, and the captains of the chariots.

21:10 So the Edomites revolted  the hand of Judah unto this
day.

The same time also did Libnah revoler his hand; because he
had forsaken the LORD God of his fathers.

21:r he made high places in the mountains of Judah and
caused the inhabitusalem to commit fornication, and
compelled Judah thereto.

21:12 And  a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying,
Thus saith the LORDid thy father, Because thou hast not
walked in the ways of Jehoshaphater, nor in the ways of Asa
king of Judah, 21:13 But hast walked in the kings of
Israel, and hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalemhoring, like to the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast
slaihren of thy father’s house, which were better than
thyself: 21:14 Be a great plague will the LORD smite thy
people, and thy children, and  and all thy goods: 21:15 And
thou shalt have great sickness by diseaswels, until thy
bowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day.
eover the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the
Philistinethe Arabians, that were near the Ethiopians: 21:17
And they came up innd brake into it, and carried away all
the substance that was found ins house, and his sons also,
and his wives; so that there was never aim, save Jehoahaz,
the youngest of his sons.

21:18 And after all thisD smote him in his bowels with an
incurable disease.

21:19 And it cam that in process of time, after the end of
two years, his bowels fell son of his sickness: so he died
of sore diseases. And his people made g for him, like the
burning of his fathers.

21:20 Thirty and two yearhe when he began to reign, and he
reigned in Jerusalem eight years, an without being desired.
Howbeit they buried him in the city of David, he
sepulchres of the kings.

22:1 And the inhabitants of Jerusalem madis youngest son
king in his stead: for the band of men that came with ns to
the camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoramdah reigned.

22:2 Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began tnd
he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was Athaughter of Omri.

22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab:other
was his counsellor to do wickedly.

22:4 Wherefore he did evil it of the LORD like the house of
Ahab: for they were his counsellors afth of his father to
his destruction.

22:5 He walked also after their d went with Jehoram the son
of Ahab king of Israel to war against HazaSyria at
Ramothgilead: and the Syrians smote Joram.

22:6 And he returealed in Jezreel because of the wounds
which were given him at Ramah, ught with Hazael king of
Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of down to see
Jehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because he was sick.
the destruction of Ahaziah was of God by coming to Joram: for
when he he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of
Nimshi, whom the LORDnted to cut off the house of Ahab.

22:8 And it came to pass, that, wh executing judgment upon
the house of Ahab, and found the princes of Jthe sons of the
brethren of Ahaziah, that ministered to Ahaziah, he sl
22:9 And he sought Ahaziah: and they caught him, (for he was hid in
Snd brought him to Jehu: and when they had slain him, they
buried him: id they, he is the son of Jehoshaphat, who
sought the LORD with all hio the house of Ahaziah had no
power to keep still the kingdom.

22:10 thaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was
dead, she arose andd all the seed royal of the house of
Judah.

22:11 But Jehoshabeath, tr of the king, took Joash the son
of Ahaziah, and stole him from amongs sons that were slain,
and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. Soath, the
daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, (fs the sister of Ahaziah,) hid him from Athaliah, so that she slew
him 2 And he was with them hid in the house of God six years: and
Athaliaher the land.

23:1 And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himsek
the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael thehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of
Adaiah,shaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.

23:2 And they wentJudah, and gathered the Levites out of all
the cities of Judah, and ththe fathers of Israel, and they
came to Jerusalem.

23:3 And all the cn made a covenant with the king in the
house of God. And he said unto ld, the king’s son shall
reign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of3:4 This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering
oth, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of
the doors; third part shall be at the king’s house; and a
third part at the gatoundation: and all the people shall be
in the courts of the house of t23:6 But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests,
at minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they are
holy: but alle shall keep the watch of the LORD.

23:7 And the Levites shall compag round about, every man
with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever e into the
house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king wheh in, and when he goeth out.

23:8 So the Levites and all Judah did aco all things that
Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every mathat
were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on th: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.

23:9 Moreover he priest delivered to the captains of
hundreds spears, and bucklers, , that had been king
David’s, which were in the house of God.

23:10 all the people, every man having his weapon in his
hand, from the rig the temple to the left side of the
temple, along by the altar and they the king round about.

23:11 Then they brought out the king’s son,pon him the
crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And nd
his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.

23:12 Now when heard the noise of the people running and
praising the king, she cameople into the house of the LORD:
23:13 And she looked, and, behold, thod at his pillar at the
entering in, and the princes and the trumpets g: and all the
people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets,he
singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praithaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.

23:14 Then Jehoiest brought out the captains of hundreds
that were set over the host,nto them, Have her forth of the
ranges: and whoso followeth her, let hn with the sword. For
the priest said, Slay her not in the house of th23:15 So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the enteringse gate by the king’s house, they slew her there.

23:16 And Jehoiadovenant between him, and between all the
people, and between the king, should be the LORD’s people.

23:17 Then all the people went to theBaal, and brake it
down, and brake his altars and his images in piecesMattan
the priest of Baal before the altars.

23:18 Also Jehoiada appooffices of the house of the LORD by
the hand of the priests the Leviteid had distributed in the
house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerie LORD, as it is
written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with s it
was ordained by David.

23:19 And he set the porters at the gatesuse of the LORD,
that none which was unclean in any thing should enter And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the
governoople, and all the people of the land, and brought
down the king from t the LORD: and they came through the
high gate into the king’s housethe king upon the throne of
the kingdom.

23:21 And all the people of joiced: and the city was quiet,
after that they had slain Athaliah wit.

24:1 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reignyears in Jerusalem. His mother’s name also was Zibiah of
Beersheba.
oash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
the days ofthe priest.

24:3 And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat soghters.

24:4 And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded toe house of the LORD.

24:5 And he gathered together the priests and th and said to
them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all  repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that ye
hastematter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.

24:6 And the king callediada the chief, and said unto him,
Why hast thou not required of the Lring in out of Judah and
out of Jerusalem the collection, according tondment of Moses
the servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Isthe
tabernacle of witness?  24:7 For the sons of Athaliah, that wickedd broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated
things of theof the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim.

24:8 And at the king’s comhey made a chest, and set it
without at the gate of the house of the L:9 And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to
bring ORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laid
upon Israel in tess.

24:10 And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brougcast into the chest, until they had made an end.

24:11 Now it came to at what time the chest was brought
unto the king’s office by the haLevites, and when they saw
that there was much money, the king’s scr high priest’s
officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and  to his
place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in
a24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to
repair the the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brass
to mend the house of
24:13 So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, andthe house of God in his state, and strengthened it.

24:14 And when thshed it, they brought the rest of the
money before the king and Jehoiaf were made vessels for the
house of the LORD, even vessels to ministefer withal, and
spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offerferings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of
Jehoiada. Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; an
hundred andars old was he when he died.

24:16 And they buried him in the city ofg the kings,
because he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and 
house.

24:17 Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judade obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.

24:18 Aft the house of the LORD God of their fathers, and
served groves and iwrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for
this their trespass.

24:19 Yeprophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD;
and they testifiehem: but they would not give ear.

24:20 And the Spirit of God came upah the son of Jehoiada
the priest, which stood above the people, and sthem, Thus
saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the LORD, not prosper? because ye have forsaken the LORD, he hath also
forsaken 21 And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at
the cof the king in the court of the house of the LORD.

24:22 Thus Joash tmembered not the kindness which Jehoiada
his father had done to him, bs son. And when he died, he
said, The LORD look upon it, and require iAnd it came to pass at the end of the year, that the host of
Syria camt him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and
destroyed all the prie people from among the people, and
sent all the spoil of them unto thDamascus.

24:24 For the army of the Syrians came with a small company the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand, because they
han the LORD God of their fathers. So they executed judgment
against Joash.

24:25 And when they were departed from him, (for they left him in
great diseases,) his own servants conspired against him for the blood
of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he
died: and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him
not in the sepulchres of the kings.

24:26 And these are they that conspired against him; Zabad the son of
Shimeath an Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith a Moabitess.

24:27 Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laid
upon him, and the repairing of the of God, behold, they are
written in the story of the book of the kingsziah his son
reigned in his stead.

25:1 Amaziah was twenty and five yhen he began to reign, and
he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalher’s name
was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

25:2 And he did that which wght in the sight of the LORD, but not
with a perfect heart.

25:3 Now  to pass, when the kingdom was established to him,
that he slew his seat had killed the king his father.

25:4 But he slew not their childre as it is written in the
law in the book of Moses, where the LORD comming, The
fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the chi
for the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin.

25:5 Moreo gathered Judah together, and made them captains
over thousands, and cer hundreds, according to the houses of
their fathers, throughout all enjamin: and he numbered them
from twenty years old and above, and fouree hundred thousand
choice men, able to go forth to war, that could hr and
shield.

25:6 He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of va
Israel for an hundred talents of silver.

25:7 But there came a man oim, saying, O king, let not the
army of Israel go with thee; for the Lt with Israel, to wit,
with all the children of Ephraim.

25:8 But if go, do it; be strong for the battle: God shall
make thee fall before tfor God hath power to help, and to
cast down.

25:9 And Amaziah said tn of God, But what shall we do for the
hundred talents which I have giarmy of Israel? And the man
of God answered, The LORD is able to give  more than this.

25:10 Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army me to
him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger was
ndled against Judah, and they returned home in great anger.

25:11 Andrengthened himself, and led forth his people, and
went to the valley ond smote of the children of Seir ten
thousand.

25:12 And other ten tht alive did the children of Judah
carry away captive, and brought themtop of the rock, and
cast them down from the top of the rock, that thebroken in
pieces.

25:13 But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sehat they
should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judamaria even unto Bethhoron, and smote three thousand of them, and
took.

25:14 Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the
sla the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of
Seir, and s to be his gods, and bowed down himself before
them, and burned incensm.

25:15 Wherefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah,t unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou sought
after of the people, which could not deliver their own people
out of thine h6 And it came to pass, as he talked with him,
that the king said unto thou made of the king’s counsel?
forbear; why shouldest thou be smithe prophet forbare, and
said, I know that God hath determined to destrecause thou
hast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.

2Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the
son of Jehoason of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us
see one another in t25:18 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying,
e that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon,
saying, Gghter to my son to wife: and there passed by a
wild beast that was in and trode down the thistle.

25:19 Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten es; and thine heart
lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why sou meddle
to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judae?  25:20 But Amaziah would not hear; for it came of God, that he
mighthem into the hand of their enemies, because they sought
after the god

25:21 So Joash the king of Israel went up; and they saw one another , both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Bethshemesh, which
belongeth t25:22 And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled
everis tent.

25:23 And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judan
of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Bethshemesh, and brought him to
Jend brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of
Ephraim to the cofour hundred cubits.

25:24 And he took all the gold and the silver, avessels
that were found in the house of God with Obededom, and the trethe king’s house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.

25:25he son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Joash son of Jeahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

25:26 Now the rest of the acts of irst and last, behold, are
they not written in the book of the kings od Israel?  25:27
Now after the time that Amaziah did turn away from foe LORD
they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled tobut they sent to Lachish after him, and slew him there.

25:28 And thehim upon horses, and buried him with his
fathers in the city of Judah.n all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years
old, and king in the room of his father Amaziah.

26:2 He built Eloth, and rest Judah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

26:3 Sixteen yearah when he began to reign, and he
reigned fifty and two years in Jerusmother’s name also was
Jecoliah of Jerusalem.

26:4 And he did that right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amazi6:5 And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding
ions of God: and as long as he sought the LORD, God made him
to prosped he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake
down theGath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod,
and built citieshdod, and among the Philistines.

26:7 And God helped him against the s, and against the
Arabians that dwelt in Gurbaal, and the Mehunims.

he Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spread
abroad even to ng in of Egypt; for he strengthened himself
exceedingly.

26:9 Moreoveuilt towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and
at the valley gate, aturning of the wall, and fortified
them.

26:10 Also he built towers irt, and digged many wells: for
he had much cattle, both in the low coun the plains:
husbandmen also, and vine dressers in the mountains, andl:
for he loved husbandry.

26:11 Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighthat went out to
war by bands, according to the number of their accountd of
Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hanani the king’s captains.

26:12 The whole number of the chief of the fahe mighty men
of valour were two thousand and six hundred.

26:13 And r hand was an army, three hundred thousand and
seven thousand and fivethat made war with mighty power, to
help the king against the enemy.

Uzziah prepared for them throughout all the host shields,
and spears, s, and habergeons, and bows, and slings to cast
stones.

26:15 And he erusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to be
on the towers and upowarks, to shoot arrows and great stones
withal.

And his name spread f; for he was marvellously helped, till
he was strong.

26:16 But when ong, his heart was lifted up to his
destruction: for he transgressed ae LORD his God, and went
into the temple of the LORD to burn incense ultar of incense.

26:17 And Azariah the priest went in after him, and ourscore
priests of the LORD, that were valiant men: 26:18 And they wizziah the king, and said unto him, It appertaineth not unto thee,
Uzzin incense unto the LORD, but to the priests the sons of
Aaron, that arated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary;
for thou hast trespasser shall it be for thine honour from
the LORD God.

26:19 Then Uzziah wh, and had a censer in his hand to burn
incense: and while he was wrotthe priests, the leprosy even
rose up in his forehead before the prieshouse of the LORD,
from beside the incense altar.

26:20 And Azariah triest, and all the priests, looked upon
him, and, behold, he was leproforehead, and they thrust him
out from thence; yea, himself hasted alsut, because the LORD
had smitten him.

26:21 And Uzziah the king was ao the day of his death, and
dwelt in a several house, being a leper; fut off from the
house of the LORD: and Jotham his son was over the kine,
judging the people of the land.

26:22 Now the rest of the acts of rst and last, did Isaiah
the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.

26:23 Slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his
fathers in the fieburial which belonged to the kings; for
they said, He is a leper: and son reigned in his stead.

27:1 Jotham was twenty and five years old wgan to reign, and
he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother’so was
Jerushah, the daughter of Zadok.

27:2 And he did that which wa in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Uzziah dide entered not
into the temple of the LORD. And the people did yet corr:3 He built the high gate of the house of the LORD, and on the wall
ofbuilt much.

27:4 Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, 
forests he built castles and towers.

27:5 He fought also with the kimmonites, and prevailed
against them. And the children of Ammon gave he year an
hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of whea
thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon pay unto him,
bcond year, and the third.

27:6 So Jotham became mighty, because he pr ways before the
LORD his God.

27:7 Now the rest of the acts of Jothal his wars, and his
ways, lo, they are written in the book of the kingl and
Judah.

27:8 He was five and twenty years old when he began to rreigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.

27:9 And Jotham slept with his fa they buried him in the
city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his8:1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
srs in Jerusalem: but he did not that which was right in the
sight of tke David his father: 28:2 For he walked in the
ways of the kings of Isade also molten images for Baalim.

28:3 Moreover he burnt incense in of the son of Hinnom, and
burnt his children in the fire, after the abs of the heathen
whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Isr He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, and on
the hunder every green tree.

28:5 Wherefore the LORD his God delivered himand of the
king of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away a greatof them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also
delivethe hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a
great slaughter.
Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah an hundred and twenty
thousandy, which were all valiant men; because they had
forsaken the LORD God athers.

28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the kon, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah that was next
t.

28:8 And the children of Israel carried away captive of their bretho hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also away
mucoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.

28:9 But a prophet o was there, whose name was Oded: and he
went out before the host that amaria, and said unto them,
Behold, because the LORD God of your fatheth with Judah, he
hath delivered them into your hand, and ye have slaia rage
that reacheth up unto heaven.

28:10 And now ye purpose to keep children of Judah and
Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: bere not with
you, even with you, sins against the LORD your God?  28:1r me
therefore, and deliver the captives again, which ye have taken caur brethren: for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you.

28:12 Thenf the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah
the son of Johanan, Bee son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah
the son of Shallum, and Amasa thelai, stood up against them
that came from the war, 28:13 And said untoshall not bring
in the captives hither: for whereas we have offended a LORD
already, ye intend to add more to our sins and to our trespass: respass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.

28:14 So en left the captives and the spoil before the
princes and all the cong
28:15 And the men which were expressed by name rose up, and took the
and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them,
and arrayed shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink,
and anointed them, and l the feeble of them upon asses, and
brought them to Jericho, the cityees, to their brethren:
then they returned to Samaria.

28:16 At that ng Ahaz send unto the kings of Assyria to
help him.

28:17 For again tEdomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried
away captives.

28:18stines also had invaded the cities of the low country,
and of the south, and had taken Bethshemesh, and Ajalon, and
Gederoth, and Shocho witages thereof, and Timnah with the
villages thereof, Gimzo also and theeof: and they dwelt
there.

28:19 For the LORD brought Judah low becau of Ahaz king of Israel;
for he made Judah naked, and transgressed sorthe LORD.

28:20 And Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria came unto him, aned him, but strengthened him not.

28:21 For Ahaz took away a portion  house of the LORD, and
out of the house of the king, and of the princave it unto the
king of Assyria: but he helped him not.

28:22 And in  his distress did he trespass yet more against
the LORD: this is that 

28:23 For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him:
d, Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them,
therefore will I o them, that they may help me. But they
were the ruin of him, and of a.

28:24 And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, apieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors
of the hhe LORD, and he made him altars in every corner of
Jerusalem.

28:25 Avery several city of Judah he made high places to burn
incense unto ot and provoked to anger the LORD God of his
fathers.

28:26 Now the rests and of all his ways, first and last,
behold, they are written in thhe kings of Judah and Israel.

28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, uried him in the
city, even in Jerusalem: but they brought him not intulchres
of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his st Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old,
and heine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother’s
name was Abijah,ter of Zechariah.

29:2 And he did that which was right in the sight o,
according to all that David his father had done.

29:3 He in the fir his reign, in the first month, opened the
doors of the house of the Lepaired them.

29:4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites, andthem
together into the east street, 29:5 And said unto them, Hear me, s, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the LORD
God of rs, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy
place.

29:6 For ou have trespassed, and done that which was evil in
the eyes of the LORDnd have forsaken him, and have turned
away their faces from the habitahe LORD, and turned their
backs.

29:7 Also they have shut up the doorrch, and put out the
lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered buings in the
holy place unto the God of Israel.

29:8 Wherefore the wraLORD was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and
he hath delivered them to troubnishment, and to hissing, as
ye see with your eyes.

29:9 For, lo, ourhave fallen by the sword, and our sons and
our daughters and our wivestivity for this.

29:10 Now it is in mine heart to make a covenant wit God of
Israel, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us.

29:11 Mynot now negligent: for the LORD hath chosen you to
stand before him, tm, and that ye should minister unto him,
and burn incense.

29:12 Thenes arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the
son of Azariah, of ththe Kohathites: and of the sons of
Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and An of Jehalelel: and of
the Gershonites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Ed of Joah:
29:13 And of the sons of Elizaphan; Shimri, and Jeiel: and of the sons
of Asaph; Zechariah, and Mattaniah: 29:14 And of the sons of Heman;
Jehiel, and Shimei: and of the sons of Jeduthun; Shemaiah, and Uzziel.

29:15 And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, and
came, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the
LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.

29:16 And the priesto the inner part of the house of the
LORD, to cleanse it, and broughte uncleanness that they
found in the temple of the LORD into the courtse of the
LORD. And the Levites took it, to carry it out abroad into tidron.

29:17 Now they began on the first day of the first month to sad on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the LORD:
stified the house of the LORD in eight days; and in the
sixteenth day o month they made an end.

29:18 Then they went in to Hezekiah the kingd, We have
cleansed all the house of the LORD, and the altar of burnt ith all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all the
vesof.

29:19 Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and,
behold, they  before the altar of the LORD.

29:20 Then Hezekiah the king rose earlathered the rulers of
the city, and went up to the house of the LORD.
 they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven
lambs, and sev, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for
the sanctuary, and for Jd he commanded the priests the sons of
Aaron to offer them on the altaORD.

29:22 So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the  sprinkled it on the altar: likewise, when they had killed the
rams, tled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the
lambs, and they sprblood upon the altar.

29:23 And they brought forth the he goats for tering before
the king and the congregation; and they laid their hands 29:24 And the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with
tupon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: for
the king comm the burnt offering and the sin offering should
be made for all Israelnd he set the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals,
with psalwith harps, according to the commandment of
David, and of Gad the king and Nathan the prophet: for so was
the commandment of the LORD by his
29:26 And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the
prthe trumpets.

29:27 And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offerin
altar.

And when the burnt offering began, the song of the LORD began the trumpets, and with the instruments ordained by David king of
IsraAnd all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, and
the truunded: and all this continued until the burnt
offering was finished.

when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that
were presm bowed themselves, and worshipped.

29:30 Moreover Hezekiah the king  princes commanded the Levites
to sing praise unto the LORD with the wvid, and of Asaph the
seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and ttheir heads
and worshipped.

29:31 Then Hezekiah answered and said, Noonsecrated
yourselves unto the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices anferings into the house of the LORD. And the congregation brought in
sand thank offerings; and as many as were of a free heart
burnt offeringAnd the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregation
brought,core and ten bullocks, an hundred rams, and two
hundred lambs: all the a burnt offering to the LORD.

29:33 And the consecrated things were  oxen and three
thousand sheep.

29:34 But the priests were too few, sy could not flay all
the burnt offerings: wherefore their brethren theid help
them, till the work was ended, and until the other priests had themselves: for the Levites were more upright in heart to
sanctify thhan the priests.

29:35 And also the burnt offerings were in abundance fat of
the peace offerings, and the drink offerings for every burnt o the service of the house of the LORD was set in order.

29:36 And Heziced, and all the people, that God had prepared
the people: for the thne suddenly.

30:1 And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrotalso
to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of thJerusalem, to keep the passover unto the LORD God of Israel.

30:2 Forhad taken counsel, and his princes, and all the
congregation in Jerusaep the passover in the second month.

30:3 For they could not keep it me, because the priests had
not sanctified themselves sufficiently, nehe people
gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.

30:4 And the thi the king and all the congregation.

30:5 So they established a decreeoclamation throughout all
Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, that theome to keep the
passover unto the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem: forot
done it of a long time in such sort as it was written.

30:6 So thet with the letters from the king and his princes
throughout all Israel, and according to the commandment of
the king, saying, Ye children ofurn again unto the LORD God
of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, and he will the remnant of
you, that are escaped out of the hand of the kings of 0:7 And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, which
treinst the LORD God of their fathers, who therefore gave
them up to deson, as ye see.

30:8 Now be ye not stiffnecked, as your fathers were, byourselves unto the LORD, and enter into his sanctuary, which he hath
 for ever: and serve the LORD your God, that the fierceness
of his wran away from you.

30:9 For if ye turn again unto the LORD, your brethrr
children shall find compassion before them that lead them captive, s shall come again into this land: for the LORD your God is
gracious an, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye
return unto him.

30posts passed from city to city through the country of
Ephraim and Manaunto Zebulun: but they laughed them to
scorn, and mocked them.

30:11 s divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled
themselves, and rusalem.

30:12 Also in Judah the hand of God was to give them one heahe commandment of the king and of the princes, by the word of the
LORDd there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feast
of unleavin the second month, a very great congregation.

30:14 And they arose way the altars that were in Jerusalem,
and all the altars for incense away, and cast them into the
brook Kidron.

30:15 Then they killed theon the fourteenth day of the
second month: and the priests and the Leve ashamed, and
sanctified themselves, and brought in the burnt offerine
house of the LORD.

30:16 And they stood in their place after their according to
the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled thhich they received of the hand of the Levites.

30:17 For there were me congregation that were not
sanctified: therefore the Levites had thef the killing of the
passovers for every one that was not clean, to sam unto the
LORD.

30:18 For a multitude of the people, even many of EpManasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did
he passover otherwise than it was written. But Hezekiah
prayed for theThe good LORD pardon every one 30:19 That
prepareth his heart to seek LORD God of his fathers, though
he be not cleansed according to the pu of the sanctuary.

30:20 And the LORD hearkened to Hezekiah, and healple.

30:21 And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem east of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness: and the
Levit priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with loud
instruments unD.

30:22 And Hezekiah spake comfortably unto all the Levites that tauod knowledge of the LORD: and they did eat throughout the feast
seven ing peace offerings, and making confession to the
LORD God of their fa:23 And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days:
and other seven days with gladness.

30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah did e congregation a
thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the pve to
the congregation a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: andmber of priests sanctified themselves.

30:25 And all the congregation with the priests and the
Levites, and all the congregation that came ael, and the
strangers that came out of the land of Israel, and that dah, rejoiced.

30:26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem: for since thSolomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like in
Jeru0:27 Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and
thas heard, and their prayer came up to his holy dwelling
place, even un

31:1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel that were present wehe cities of Judah, and brake the images in pieces, and cut
down the g threw down the high places and the altars out of
all Judah and Benjamaim also and Manasseh, until they had
utterly destroyed them all. Thenhildren of Israel returned,
every man to his possession, into their ow

31:2 And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levitheir courses, every man according to his service, the priests
and Levirnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister,
and to give thankspraise in the gates of the tents of the
LORD.

31:3 He appointed also s portion of his substance for the
burnt offerings, to wit, for the moevening burnt offerings,
and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths, andew moons, and
for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of the Lreover he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to give
the por the priests and the Levites, that they might be
encouraged in the lawRD.

31:5 And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of
ought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil,
and honey,  the increase of the field; and the tithe of all
things brought they ily.

31:6 And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt es of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep,
and theholy things which were consecrated unto the LORD
their God, and laid tps.

31:7 In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the hfinished them in the seventh month.

31:8 And when Hezekiah and the prand saw the heaps, they
blessed the LORD, and his people Israel.

31:9ekiah questioned with the priests and the Levites
concerning the heapsnd Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him,
and sathe people began to bring the offerings into the house
of the LORD, wenough to eat, and have left plenty: for the
LORD hath blessed his peopat which is left is this great
store.

31:11 Then Hezekiah commanded tchambers in the house of the
LORD; and they prepared them, 31:12 And bhe offerings and
the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: over niah
the Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was the next.

31:13l, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth,
and Jozabad, andd Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, were
overseers under the hand ofand Shimei his brother, at the
commandment of Hezekiah the king, and A ruler of the house
of God.

31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Leviter toward the
east, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distriblations of the LORD, and the most holy things.

31:15 And next him werd Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah,
Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the ce priests, in their set
office, to give to their brethren by courses, the great as
to the small: 31:16 Beside their genealogy of males, fromars
old and upward, even unto every one that entereth into the house o, his daily portion for their service in their charges
according to thes; 31:17 Both to the genealogy of the priests
by the house of their f the Levites from twenty years old
and upward, in their charges by the; 31:18 And to the
genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, anns, and
their daughters, through all the congregation: for in their seey sanctified themselves in holiness: 31:19 Also of the sons of
Aaron s, which were in the fields of the suburbs of their
cities, in every sy, the men that were expressed by name, to
give portions to all the mahe priests, and to all that were
reckoned by genealogies among the Lev20 And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah, and wrought that
which nd right and truth before the LORD his God.

31:21 And in every work tan in the service of the house of
God, and in the law, and in the commto seek his God, he did
it with all his heart, and prospered.

32:1 Afthings, and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib
king of Assyria camred into Judah, and encamped against the
fenced cities, and thought tofor himself.

32:2 And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, anwas
purposed to fight against Jerusalem, 32:3 He took counsel with hisnd his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which
were withoty: and they did help him.

32:4 So there was gathered much people togstopped all the
fountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of
saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?
32 strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that was
broken, and p to the towers, and another wall without, and
repaired Millo in the cid, and made darts and shields in
abundance.

32:6 And he set captainser the people, and gathered them
together to him in the street of the e city, and spake
comfortably to them, saying, 32:7 Be strong and cournot
afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multiis with him: for there be more with us than with him: 32:8 With
him isflesh; but with us is the LORD our God to help us,
and to fight our ba the people rested themselves upon the
words of Hezekiah king of Judah9 After this did Sennacherib king of Assyria send his servants to
Jerut he himself laid siege against Lachish, and all his
power with him,) ekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah that
were at Jerusalem, sayings saith Sennacherib king of
Assyria, Whereon do ye trust, that ye abidiege in Jerusalem?
32:11 Doth not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yto die by
famine and by thirst, saying, The LORD our God shall deliverthe hand of the king of Assyria?  32:12 Hath not the same Hezekiah
taks high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and
Jerusalem, sayin worship before one altar, and burn incense
upon it?  32:13 Know ye nod my fathers have done unto all
the people of other lands? were the goations of those lands
any ways able to deliver their lands out of mine:14 Who was
there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers stroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that your
Godable to deliver you out of mine hand?  32:15 Now
therefore let not Hezve you, nor persuade you on this
manner, neither yet believe him: for ny nation or kingdom
was able to deliver his people out of mine hand, the hand
of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out o?  32:16 And his servants spake yet more against the LORD God, and
agarvant Hezekiah.

32:17 He wrote also letters to rail on the LORD God oand to
speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other e not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the God
of deliver his people out of mine hand.

32:18 Then they cried with a loin the Jews’ speech unto the
people of Jerusalem that were on the waright them, and to
trouble them; that they might take the city.

32:19 spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the gods
of the peoplearth, which were the work of the hands of man.

32:20 And for this cauh the king, and the prophet Isaiah the
son of Amoz, prayed and cried t32:21 And the LORD sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men of
d the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of
Assyria. So he rth shame of face to his own land. And when
he was come into the house , they that came forth of his own
bowels slew him there with the swordhus the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem
from the nnacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand of
all other, and guin every side.

32:23 And many brought gifts unto the LORD to Jerusalemsents
to Hezekiah king of Judah: so that he was magnified in the sighttions from thenceforth.

32:24 In those days Hezekiah was sick to the  prayed unto
the LORD: and he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign.
But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done
unto himheart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath upon
him, and upon Judasalem.

32:26 Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride oboth he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of
the LOR upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

32:27 And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour: and he made
himself treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones,
and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of pleasant
jewels; 32:28 Storehouses also for the increase of corn, and wine, and
oil; and stalls for all manner of beast and cotes for flocks.

32:29 Moreover he provided him cities, and pos flocks and
herds in abundance: for God had given him substance very m0 This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon,
and straight down to the west side of the city of David.
And Hezekiah prosall his works.

32:31 Howbeit in the business of the ambassadors of thf
Babylon, who sent unto him to enquire of the wonder that was done in God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in
his hear Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his goodness, behold,
they ten in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz,
and in the be kings of Judah and Israel.

32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathery buried him in the
chiefest of the sepulchres of the sons of David: ah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honour at his death. And Ma reigned in his stead.

33:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he beg to reign, and he
reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem: 33:2 But ich was
evil in the sight of the LORD, like unto the abominations of tn, whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

33:3 Foragain the high places which Hezekiah his father had
broken down, and h up altars for Baalim, and made groves, and
worshipped all the host ofnd served them.

33:4 Also he built altars in the house of the LORD, w LORD
had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.

33:5 And he bs for all the host of heaven in the two courts
of the house of the LORAnd he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley
of tHinnom: also he observed times, and used enchantments,
and used witchcealt with a familiar spirit, and with
wizards: he wrought much evil in of the LORD, to provoke him
to anger.

33:7 And he set a carved imageol which he had made, in the
house of God, of which God had said to Da Solomon his son,
In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosenll the
tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever: 33:8 Neither wile remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I have
appointer fathers; so that they will take heed to do all that
I have commandedording to the whole law and the statutes and
the ordinances by the han.

33:9 So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to errdo worse than the heathen, whom the LORD had destroyed before
the chilrael.

33:10 And the LORD spake to Manasseh, and to his people: but thnot hearken.

33:11 Wherefore the LORD brought upon them the captains st of
the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and bith fetters, and carried him to Babylon.

33:12 And when he was in affe besought the LORD his God, and
humbled himself greatly before the Gofathers, 33:13 And
prayed unto him: and he was intreated of him, and hupplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom.
Thennew that the LORD he was God.

33:14 Now after this he built a wall wiity of David, on the
west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the ent the fish
gate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it up a very gr,
and put captains of war in all the fenced cities of Judah.

33:15 Anway the strange gods, and the idol out of the house
of the LORD, and aars that he had built in the mount of the
house of the LORD, and in Jend cast them out of the city.

33:16 And he repaired the altar of the sacrificed thereon
peace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded erve the
LORD God of Israel.

33:17 Nevertheless the people did sacrifin the high places,
yet unto the LORD their God only.

33:18 Now the re acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto his
God, and the words of the  spake to him in the name of the
LORD God of Israel, behold, they are the book of the kings
of Israel.

33:19 His prayer also, and how God wd of him, and all his
sins, and his trespass, and the places wherein hgh places,
and set up groves and graven images, before he was humbled:hey are written among the sayings of the seers.

33:20 So Manasseh sles fathers, and they buried him in his
own house: and Amon his son reig stead.

33:21 Amon was two and twenty years old when he began to reiggned two years in Jerusalem.

33:22 But he did that which was evil in t of the LORD, as did
Manasseh his father: for Amon sacrificed unto alarved images
which Manasseh his father had made, and served them; 33:2led
not himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled
hi Amon trespassed more and more.

33:24 And his servants conspired againd slew him in his own
house.

33:25 But the people of the land slew aat had conspired
against king Amon; and the people of the land made Joon king
in his stead.

34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he began tand he reigned
in Jerusalem one and thirty years.

34:2 And he did thaas right in the sight of the LORD, and
walked in the ways of David hisand declined neither to the
right hand, nor to the left.

34:3 For in  year of his reign, while he was yet young, he
began to seek after thevid his father: and in the twelfth
year he began to purge Judah and Jerom the high places, and
the groves, and the carved images, and the mos.

34:4 And they brake down the altars of Baalim in his presence; ands, that were on high above them, he cut down; and the groves, and
the ges, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made
dust of them,ed it upon the graves of them that had
sacrificed unto them.

34:5 Andthe bones of the priests upon their altars, and
cleansed Judah and Jer:6 And so did he in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon,
ephtali, with their mattocks round about.

34:7 And when he had broken altars and the groves, and had
beaten the graven images into powder, awn all the idols
throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jer4:8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the
la house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah
the governor y, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to
repair the house of the God.

34:9 And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they deliveoney that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites that
kes had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and
of all the remsrael, and of all Judah and Benjamin; and they
returned to Jerusalem.
 they put it in the hand of the workmen that had the
oversight of the he LORD, and they gave it to the workmen
that wrought in the house of to repair and amend the house:
34:11 Even to the artificers and buildey it, to buy hewn
stone, and timber for couplings, and to floor the ho the
kings of Judah had destroyed.

34:12 And the men did the work faiand the overseers of them
were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of therari; and
Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to sard; and other of the Levites, all that could skill of instruments
of :13 Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and were overseers
of wrought the work in any manner of service: and of the
Levites there we, and officers, and porters.

34:14 And when they brought out the mone brought into the
house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found a book oof the
LORD given by Moses.

34:15 And Hilkiah answered and said to Shscribe, I have
found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. Anddelivered the book to Shaphan.

34:16 And Shaphan carried the book to and brought the king
word back again, saying, All that was committed tants, they
do it.

34:17 And they have gathered together the money thand in the
house of the LORD, and have delivered it into the hand of ths, and to the hand of the workmen.

34:18 Then Shaphan the scribe told, saying, Hilkiah the
priest hath given me a book. And Shaphan read ite king.

34:19 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words w, that he rent his clothes.

34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, anthe son of Shaphan,
and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribeiah a
servant of the king’s, saying, 34:21 Go, enquire of the LORD fnd for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the
wordsok that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORD
that is poured ou, because our fathers have not kept the word
of the LORD, to do after  written in this book.

34:22 And Hilkiah, and they that the king had  went to
Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvath
of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the) and they spake to her to that effect.

34:23 And she answered them,  the LORD God of Israel, Tell
ye the man that sent you to me, 34:24 The LORD, Behold, I
will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabireof,
even all the curses that are written in the book which they haveore the king of Judah: 34:25 Because they have forsaken me, and
have bnse unto other gods, that they might provoke me to
anger with all the eir hands; therefore my wrath shall be
poured out upon this place, andt be quenched.

34:26 And as for the king of Judah, who sent you to ene
LORD, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel
cothe words which thou hast heard; 34:27 Because thine heart
was tender,idst humble thyself before God, when thou
heardest his words against td against the inhabitants
thereof, and humbledst thyself before me, andst rend thy clothes,
and weep before me; I have even heard thee also,ORD.

34:28 Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt ed to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the
evil th bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants of
the same. So they e king word again.

34:29 Then the king sent and gathered together allers of Judah
and Jerusalem.

34:30 And the king went up into the houseRD, and all the men
of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and th and the
Levites, and all the people, great and small: and he read in all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the
house D.

34:31 And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments, and his
testimons statutes, with all his heart, and with all his
soul, to perform the he covenant which are written in this
book.

34:32 And he caused all tresent in Jerusalem and Benjamin to
stand to it. And the inhabitants olem did according to the
covenant of God, the God of their fathers.

3osiah took away all the abominations out of all the
countries that perthe children of Israel, and made all that
were present in Israel to sen to serve the LORD their God. And
all his days they departed not fromg the LORD, the God of
their fathers.

35:1 Moreover Josiah kept a pas the LORD in Jerusalem: and
they killed the passover on the fourteenthhe first month.

35:2 And he set the priests in their charges, and encem to
the service of the house of the LORD, 35:3 And said unto the Lev taught all Israel, which were holy unto the LORD, Put the holy
ark ine which Solomon the son of David king of Israel did
build; it shall noen upon your shoulders: serve now the
LORD your God, and his people Is And prepare yourselves by
the houses of your fathers, after your courrding to the
writing of David king of Israel, and according to the wrilomon his son.

35:5 And stand in the holy place according to the divihe
families of the fathers of your brethren the people, and after the
f the families of the Levites.

35:6 So kill the passover, and sanctifves, and prepare your
brethren, that they may do according to the wordORD by the
hand of Moses.

35:7 And Josiah gave to the people, of the ambs and kids, all
for the passover offerings, for all that were presenumber
of thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of s substance.

35:8 And his princes gave willingly unto the people, to ts,
and to the Levites: Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, rulers of th God, gave unto the priests for the passover offerings two
thousand anred small cattle and three hundred oxen.

35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemethaneel, his brethren, and
Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, chief of s, gave unto the
Levites for passover offerings five thousand small cafive
hundred oxen.

35:10 So the service was prepared, and the priestsheir
place, and the Levites in their courses, according to the king’nt.

35:11 And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled them their hands, and the Levites flayed them.

35:12 And they removed therings, that they might give
according to the divisions of the familieople, to offer
unto the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. Athey
with the oxen.

35:13 And they roasted the passover with fire acche
ordinance: but the other holy offerings sod they in pots, and in
cad in pans, and divided them speedily among all the people.

35:14 And  they made ready for themselves, and for the
priests: because the priens of Aaron were busied in offering
of burnt offerings and the fat unttherefore the Levites
prepared for themselves, and for the priests theAaron.

35:15 And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, ao the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the
kin; and the porters waited at every gate; they might not
depart from the; for their brethren the Levites prepared for
them.

35:16 So all the f the LORD was prepared the same day, to
keep the passover, and to offfferings upon the altar of the
LORD, according to the commandment of k5:17 And the children of Israel that were present kept the passover
atme, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.

35:18 And there waser like to that kept in Israel from the
days of Samuel the prophet; neall the kings of Israel keep
such a passover as Josiah kept, and the p the Levites, and
all Judah and Israel that were present, and the inhaJerusalem.

35:19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was thr
kept.

35:20 After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Neof Egypt came up to fight against Charchemish by Euphrates: and Josiahagainst him.

35:21 But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have h
thee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but
agaiuse wherewith I have war: for God commanded me to make
haste: forbear meddling with God, who is with me, that he
destroy thee not.

35:22 Nes Josiah would not turn his face from him, but
disguised himself, thatight with him, and hearkened not
unto the words of Necho from the mout and came to fight in
the valley of Megiddo.

35:23 And the archers shg Josiah; and the king said to his
servants, Have me away; for I am so.

35:24 His servants therefore took him out of that chariot, and put  second chariot that he had; and they brought him to Jerusalem,
and hed was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers.
And all Judah anem mourned for Josiah.

35:25 And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and aling men and
the singing women spake of Josiah in their lamentations to
and made them an ordinance in Israel: and, behold, they are written ientations.

35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his goodnessng
to that which was written in the law of the LORD, 35:27 And his deeand last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of
Israel .

36:1 Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, aim king in his father’s stead in Jerusalem.

36:2 Jehoahaz was twente years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned three months in Jer6:3 And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem, and condemned
the hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.

36:4 And the king ofe Eliakim his brother king over Judah
and Jerusalem, and turned his naiakim. And Necho took
Jehoahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.
oiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign,
and he reen years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was
evil in the sight of is God.

36:6 Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.

36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also carriedessels of the house of the
LORD to Babylon, and put them in his templen.

36:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations wd, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in
the boings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his son
reigned in his stead.hoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned th and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which
was evil in the sighORD.

36:10 And when the year was expired, king Nebuchadnezzar sent, a him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of the
LORD, andkiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.

36:11 Zedekiah was ony years old when he began to reign,
and reigned eleven years in Jerusa12 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God,
and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from the
mouth of the LORD.

36:13 And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made
him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart
from turning unto the LORD God of Israel.

36:14 Moreov all the chief of the priests, and the people,
transgressed very much l the abominations of the heathen; and
polluted the house of the LORD ad hallowed in Jerusalem.

36:15 And the LORD God of their fathers senby his
messengers, rising up betimes, and sending; because he had comphis people, and on his dwelling place: 36:16 But they mocked the
messeGod, and despised his words, and misused his prophets,
until the wrathRD arose against his people, till there was
no remedy.

36:17 Thereforpon them the king of the Chaldees, who
slew their young men with the sthe house of their sanctuary,
and had no compassion upon young man or  man, or him that
stooped for age: he gave them all into his hand.

36l the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and
the treasures of the LORD, and the treasures of the king,
and of his princes; all thught to Babylon.

36:19 And they burnt the house of God, and brake dowl of
Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destrhe goodly vessels thereof.

36:20 And them that had escaped from the sried he away to
Babylon; where they were servants to him and his sons reign
of the kingdom of Persia: 36:21 To fulfil the word of the LORD b of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her sabbaths: for as
long as esolate she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and
ten years.

36:22 N first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of
the LORD spoken th of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the
LORD stirred up the spirit ong of Persia, that he made a
proclamation throughout all his kingdom,  also in writing,
saying, 36:23 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All ts of the
earth hath the LORD God of heaven given me; and he hath chargild him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among
yhis people?  The LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.




Ezraow in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of
the LORmouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the LORD stirred
up the spirit oking of Persia, that he made a proclamation
throughout all his kingdomit also in writing, saying, 1:2
Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, The L heaven hath given me
all the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath chargild him an
house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah.

1:3 Who is there am all his people? his God be with him, and
let him go up to Jerusalem, Judah, and build the house of
the LORD God of Israel, (he is the God,)n Jerusalem.

1:4 And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourhe
men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goodh beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God
that is in

1:5 Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, ands, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God had
raised, to go u the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem.

1:6 And all they that wthem strengthened their hands with
vessels of silver, with gold, with  with beasts, and with
precious things, beside all that was willingly 1:7 Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the
 Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and had
put them ise of his gods; 1:8 Even those did Cyrus king of
Persia bring forth by Mithredath the treasurer, and
numbered them unto Sheshbazzar, the priah.

1:9 And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, a
thrgers of silver, nine and twenty knives, 1:10 Thirty
basons of gold, ssons of a second sort four hundred and ten,
and other vessels a thousa All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four
hunthese did Sheshbazzar bring up with them of the captivity
that were brom Babylon unto Jerusalem.

2:1 Now these are the children of the prov went up out of the
captivity, of those which had been carried away, wadnezzar
the king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon, and came aJerusalem and Judah, every one unto his city; 2:2 Which came with
Zerushua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan,
Mizpar, Bigvai, anah. The number of the men of the people of
Israel: 2:3 The children  two thousand an hundred seventy
and two.

2:4 The children of Shephate hundred seventy and two.

2:5 The children of Arah, seven hundred seive.

2:6 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joousand eight hundred and twelve.

2:7 The children of Elam, a thousanded fifty and four.

2:8 The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty and The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

2:10 The childr six hundred forty and two.

2:11 The children of Bebai, six hundred tthree.

2:12 The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and  The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six.

2:14 The childrigvai, two thousand fifty and six.

2:15 The children of Adin, four hu and four.

2:16 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

hildren of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three.

2:18 The children o hundred and twelve.

2:19 The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty 

2:20 The children of Gibbar, ninety and five.

2:21 The children of an hundred twenty and three.

2:22 The men of Netophah, fifty and six.men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

2:24 The children of Azrty and two.

2:25 The children of Kirjatharim, Chephirah, and Beerothdred and forty and three.

2:26 The children of Ramah and Gaba, six huy and one.

2:27 The men of Michmas, an hundred twenty and two.

2:28  Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty and three.

2:29 The children of Neand two.

2:30 The children of Magbish, an hundred fifty and six.

2:3ldren of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and
four.

2:32 en of Harim, three hundred and twenty.

2:33 The children of Lod, Hadi, seven hundred twenty and
five.

2:34 The children of Jericho, three rty and five.

2:35 The children of Senaah, three thousand and six hunthirty.

2:36 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Je hundred seventy and three.

2:37 The children of Immer, a thousand fio.

2:38 The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and sevee children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.

2:40 The Levites: the f Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children
of Hodaviah, seventy and four.

singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred twenty and eight.

2:42 Theof the porters: the children of Shallum, the
children of Ater, the chialmon, the children of Akkub, the
children of Hatita, the children of  all an hundred thirty
and nine.

2:43 The Nethinims: the children of children of Hasupha, the
children of Tabbaoth, 2:44 The children of Keildren of
Siaha, the children of Padon, 2:45 The children of Lebanah, n of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 2:46 The children of
Hagab, the cShalmai, the children of Hanan, 2:47 The
children of Giddel, the childar, the children of Reaiah,
2:48 The children of Rezin, the children o the children of
Gazzam, 2:49 The children of Uzza, the children of Pa
children of Besai, 2:50 The children of Asnah, the children of
Mehuniildren of Nephusim, 2:51 The children of Bakbuk, the
children of Hakuphildren of Harhur, 2:52 The children of
Bazluth, the children of Mehidldren of Harsha, 2:53 The
children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, en of Thamah,
2:54 The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

2hildren of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the
children oh, the children of Peruda, 2:56 The children of
Jaalah, the children othe children of Giddel, 2:57 The
children of Shephatiah, the children  the children of
Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Ami.

2:58 All ts, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were
three hundred ninety
2:59 And these were they which went up from Telmelah, Telharsa,
Cheruand Immer: but they could not shew their father’s
house, and their sr they were of Israel: 2:60 The children
of Delaiah, the children of Tchildren of Nekoda, six
hundred fifty and two.

2:61 And of the childrpriests: the children of Habaiah, the
children of Koz, the children of; which took a wife of the
daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and w after their name:
2:62 These sought their register among those that wd by
genealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they, as polluom the priesthood.

2:63 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they s eat of the
most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim aummim.

2:64 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousanndred and threescore, 2:65 Beside their servants and their maids, of
were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and
there were amon hundred singing men and singing women.

2:66 Their horses were seven hirty and six; their mules, two
hundred forty and five; 2:67 Their camhundred thirty and
five; their asses, six thousand seven hundred and t68 And some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the house
ohich is at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God
to set it upn his place: 2:69 They gave after their ability unto the
treasure of treescore and one thousand drams of gold, and
five thousand pound of sione hundred priests’ garments.

2:70 So the priests, and the Levitese of the people, and the
singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims,  their cities,
and all Israel in their cities.

3:1 And when the sevens come, and the children of Israel
were in the cities, the people gathlves together as one man
to Jerusalem.

3:2 Then stood up Jeshua the sdak, and his brethren the
priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel brethren, and
builded the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt thereon, as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.

3:3 Andthe altar upon his bases; for fear was upon them
because of the peopleountries: and they offered burnt
offerings thereon unto the LORD, evenerings morning and
evening.

3:4 They kept also the feast of tabernaclis written, and
offered the daily burnt offerings by number, accordingstom,
as the duty of every day required; 3:5 And afterward offered theburnt offering, both of the new moons, and of all the set
feasts of that were consecrated, and of every one that
willingly offered a freewilunto the LORD.

3:6 From the first day of the seventh month began they burnt
offerings unto the LORD. But the foundation of the temple of th not yet laid.

3:7 They gave money also unto the masons, and to the cand
meat, and drink, and oil, unto them of Zidon, and to them of Tyre, cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea of Joppa, according to the
grant ad of Cyrus king of Persia.

3:8 Now in the second year of their cominhe house of God at
Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel thealtiel,
and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the remnant of their brethiests and the Levites, and all they that were come out of the
captivitsalem; and appointed the Levites, from twenty years
old and upward, tod the work of the house of the LORD.

3:9 Then stood Jeshua with his s brethren, Kadmiel and his
sons, the sons of Judah, together, to set f workmen in the
house of God: the sons of Henadad, with their sons andhren
the Levites.

3:10 And when the builders laid the foundation of tf the
LORD, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets, and tthe sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise the LORD, after the
ordinancking of Israel.

3:11 And they sang together by course in praising andnks
unto the LORD; because he is good, for his mercy endureth for everael.

And all the people shouted with a great shout, when they praisedbecause the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.

3:12 But mariests and Levites and chief of the fathers, who
were ancient men, tha the first house, when the foundation
of this house was laid before thwept with a loud voice; and
many shouted aloud for joy: 3:13 So that tcould not discern
the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the f the
people: for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise  afar off.

4:1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard tildren of the captivity builded the temple unto the LORD God of
Israeln they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the
fathers, and said uet us build with you: for we seek your
God, as ye do; and we do sacrifim since the days of
Esarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hitBut Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the
fathers oaid unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us to
build an house unto ou we ourselves together will build unto
the LORD God of Israel, as king king of Persia hath
commanded us.

4:4 Then the people of the land we hands of the people of
Judah, and troubled them in building, 4:5 And sellors
against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of CyruPersia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.

4:6 And in theAhasuerus, in the beginning of his reign,
wrote they unto him an accusinst the inhabitants of Judah and
Jerusalem.

4:7 And in the days of Arote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel,
and the rest of their companions, unrxes king of Persia; and
the writing of the letter was written in the ue, and
interpreted in the Syrian tongue.

4:8 Rehum the chancellor anhai the scribe wrote a letter
against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the kinghis sort: 4:9 Then wrote
Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scriberest of their
companions; the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpe
Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the
Dehand the Elamites, 4:10 And the rest of the nations whom the
great and Asnapper brought over, and set in the cities of
Samaria, and the rest on this side the river, and at such a
time.

4:11 This is the copy of  that they sent unto him, even unto
Artaxerxes the king; Thy servants  this side the river, and
at such a time.

4:12 Be it known unto the kthe Jews which came up from thee
to us are come unto Jerusalem, buildillious and the bad
city, and have set up the walls thereof, and joinedtions.

4:13 Be it known now unto the king, that, if this city be buile walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute, and
customhou shalt endamage the revenue of the kings.

4:14 Now because we havece from the king’s palace, and it
was not meet for us to see the kinonour, therefore have we
sent and certified the king; 4:15 That searchade in the book
of the records of thy fathers: so shalt thou find in tof the
records, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the
same e: for which cause was this city destroyed.

4:16 We certify the king is city be builded again, and the
walls thereof set up, by this means t have no portion on this
side the river.

4:17 Then sent the king an o Rehum the chancellor, and to
Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest ofpanions that dwell in
Samaria, and unto the rest beyond the river, Peat such a
time.

4:18 The letter which ye sent unto us hath been plainlfore
me.

4:19 And I commanded, and search hath been made, and it is fthis city of old time hath made insurrection against kings, and that
rd sedition have been made therein.

4:20 There have been mighty kings Jerusalem, which have
ruled over all countries beyond the river; and tte, and
custom, was paid unto them.

4:21 Give ye now commandment to cmen to cease, and that
this city be not builded, until another commandbe given
from me.

4:22 Take heed now that ye fail not to do this: whyage grow
to the hurt of the kings?  4:23 Now when the copy of king Art
letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their
compy went up in haste to Jerusalem unto the Jews, and made
them to cease nd power.

4:24 Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at JSo it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king of
Persin the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of
Iddo, proto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the
name of the God ofven unto them.

5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and on
of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem:
and with them were the prophets of God helping them.

5:3 At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and their companions, and said thus unto
them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this
wall?  5:4 Then sa unto them after this manner, What are the
names of the men that make ding?  5:5 But the eye of their
God was upon the elders of the Jews, tould not cause them to
cease, till the matter came to Darius: and theneturned answer
by letter concerning this matter.

5:6 The copy of the t Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and his cthe Apharsachites, which
were on this side the river, sent unto Dariusing: 5:7 They sent
a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Dking, all
peace.

5:8 Be it known unto the king, that we went into thef
Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great
sttimber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on,
and prospere their hands.

5:9 Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thusanded
you to build this house, and to make up these walls?  5:10 We asalso, to certify thee, that we might write the names of
the men that w chief of them.

5:11 And thus they returned us answer, saying, We areants of
the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builany years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up.

5:12 that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto
wrath, he gave th hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of
Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyse, and carried the
people away into Babylon.

5:13 But in the first yus the king of Babylon the same king
Cyrus made a decree to build thisod.

5:14 And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God,uchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and
brought the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take
out of the temple and they were delivered unto one, whose
name was Sheshbazzar, whom hegovernor; 5:15 And said unto
him, Take these vessels, go, carry them imple that is in
Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his 16 Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the
houswhich is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now
hath it beenng, and yet it is not finished.

5:17 Now therefore, if it seem good t let there be search
made in the king’s treasure house, which is thelon, whether
it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to buiuse
of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us
conc matter.

6:1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made e of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon.

6:2 And found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the
province of the Medes,d therein was a record thus written:
6:3 In the first year of Cyrus the same Cyrus the king made a
decree concerning the house of God at Jer the house be
builded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and leations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore
cubits,readth thereof threescore cubits; 6:4 With three rows
of great stones,w of new timber: and let the expenses be
given out of the king’s hou also let the golden and silver
vessels of the house of God, which Neb took forth out of
the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto e
restored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem,
eo his place, and place them in the house of God.

6:6 Now therefore, Ternor beyond the river, Shetharboznai,
and your companions the Apharsaich are beyond the river, be
ye far from thence: 6:7 Let the work of tof God alone; let
the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews house
of God in his place.

6:8 Moreover I make a decree what ye shall elders of these
Jews for the building of this house of God: that of ts goods,
even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be ghese men, that they be not hindered.

6:9 And that which they have neeyoung bullocks, and rams,
and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the Gon, wheat, salt,
wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the prih are
at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail: 6:10 may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, and
pralife of the king, and of his sons.

6:11 Also I have made a decree, thr shall alter this word,
let timber be pulled down from his house, andup, let him be
hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill fo:12 And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy all
keople, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy
this househich is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree;
let it be done with13 Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and
thions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so
they did sp:14 And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through
theg of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo.
And they buildeished it, according to the commandment of the
God of Israel, and accore commandment of Cyrus, and Darius,
and Artaxerxes king of Persia.

6: house was finished on the third day of the month Adar,
which was in tear of the reign of Darius the king.

6:16 And the children of Israel,ts, and the Levites, and the
rest of the children of the captivity, ke dedication of this
house of God with joy.

6:17 And offered at the deof this house of God an hundred
bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundrand for a sin offering
for all Israel, twelve he goats, according to ter of the tribes
of Israel.

6:18 And they set the priests in their dind the Levites in
their courses, for the service of God, which is at Jas it is
written in the book of Moses.

6:19 And the children of the cept the passover upon the
fourteenth day of the first month.

6:20 Forts and the Levites were purified together, all of
them were pure, and  passover for all the children of the
captivity, and for their brethre priests, and for themselves.

6:21 And the children of Israel, which me again out of
captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unom the
filthiness of the heathen of the land, to seek the LORD God of d eat, 6:22 And kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with
joyORD had made them joyful, and turned the heart of the
king of Assyria  to strengthen their hands in the work of
the house of God, the God of7:1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia,son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 7:2
The son ofhe son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub, 7:3 The son
of Amariah, the son ofthe son of Meraioth, 7:4 The son of
Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son 7:5 The son of Abishua,
the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the n the chief
priest: 7:6 This Ezra went up from Babylon; and he was a r
in the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel had given: and the
d him all his request, according to the hand of the LORD
his God upon And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the
priests, vites, and the singers, and the porters, and the
Nethinims, unto Jerushe seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.

7:8 And he came to Jerusalem th month, which was in the
seventh year of the king.

7:9 For upon theof the first month began he to go up from
Babylon, and on the first daifth month came he to Jerusalem,
according to the good hand of his God
7:10 For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.

7:11 Now this is the  letter that the king Artaxerxes gave
unto Ezra the priest, the scribescribe of the words of the
commandments of the LORD, and of his statutel.

7:12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, unto Ezra the priest, a scribe of of the God of heaven, perfect peace, and at such a time.

7:13 I make that all they of the people of Israel, and of
his priests and Levitesalm, which are minded of their own
freewill to go up to Jerusalem, go 

7:14 Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king, and of his seven
counsenquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to
the law of thy Godin thine hand; 7:15 And to carry the
silver and gold, which the king asellors have freely
offered unto the God of Israel, whose habitation ialem, 7:16
And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all theof Babylon, with the freewill offering of the people, and of the
priesng willingly for the house of their God which is in
Jerusalem: 7:17 Thest buy speedily with this money
bullocks, rams, lambs, with their meas and their drink
offerings, and offer them upon the altar of the housGod
which is in Jerusalem.

7:18 And whatsoever shall seem good to thehy brethren, to
do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do aill of
your God.

7:19 The vessels also that are given thee for the sehe house
of thy God, those deliver thou before the God of Jerusalem.

hatsoever more shall be needful for the house of thy God,
which thou soccasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king’s
treasure house.

7:2ven I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the
treasurers whicnd the river, that whatsoever Ezra the
priest, the scribe of the law od of heaven, shall require of
you, it be done speedily, 7:22 Unto an hents of silver, and
to an hundred measures of wheat, and to an hundredine, and
to an hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how 3 Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be
diligently duse of the God of heaven: for why should
there be wrath against the rem of the king and his sons?  7:24 Also
we certify you, that touching apriests and Levites, singers,
porters, Nethinims, or ministers of thisGod, it shall not be
lawful to impose toll, tribute, or custom, upon tAnd thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God, that is in thine
hand, sees and judges, which may judge all the people that
are beyond the rive as know the laws of thy God; and teach
ye them that know them not.

7soever will not do the law of thy God, and the law of the
king, let juexecuted speedily upon him, whether it be unto
death, or to banishmentfiscation of goods, or to
imprisonment.

7:27 Blessed be the LORD God hers, which hath put such a
thing as this in the king’s heart, to behouse of the LORD
which is in Jerusalem: 7:28 And hath extended mercy ore the
king, and his counsellors, and before all the king’s mighty nd I was strengthened as the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, and
 together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.

8:1 These are nowof their fathers, and this is the
genealogy of them that went up with bylon, in the reign of
Artaxerxes the king.

8:2 Of the sons of Phinehom: of the sons of Ithamar; Daniel:
of the sons of David; Hattush.

8:ons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh; Zechariah: and
with him werd by genealogy of the males an hundred and fifty.

8:4 Of the sons of ; Elihoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with
him two hundred males.

8:5  of Shechaniah; the son of Jahaziel, and with him three
hundred males.he sons also of Adin; Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him
fifty malnd of the sons of Elam; Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with
him sev

8:8 And of the sons of Shephatiah; Zebadiah the son of Michael, and
fourscore males.

8:9 Of the sons of Joab; Obadiah the son of Jehiel, im two
hundred and eighteen males.

8:10 And of the sons of Shelomith; of Josiphiah, and with him
an hundred and threescore males.

8:11 Andns of Bebai; Zechariah the son of Bebai, and with
him twenty and eight12 And of the sons of Azgad; Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with
himd and ten males.

8:13 And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names aEliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them threescore males.

8:14 also of Bigvai; Uthai, and Zabbud, and with them
seventy males.

8:15 ered them together to the river that runneth to Ahava;
and there abodes three days: and I viewed the people, and
the priests, and found therhe sons of Levi.

8:16 Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaia
Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for
Zed for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for
Elnathan, men ofing.

8:17 And I sent them with commandment unto Iddo the chief at theiphia, and I told them what they should say unto Iddo, and to his
bretthinims, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring
unto us ministehouse of our God.

8:18 And by the good hand of our God upon us they ba man of
understanding, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen; 8:19
And Hand with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his
brethren and their son 8:20 Also of the Nethinims, whom
David and the princes had appointed vice of the Levites,
two hundred and twenty Nethinims: all of them werd by name.

8:21 Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river of Ahavaight afflict ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right way for
r our little ones, and for all our substance.

8:22 For I was ashamed  of the king a band of soldiers and
horsemen to help us against the en way: because we had
spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our Godl them for
good that seek him; but his power and his wrath is against at forsake him.

8:23 So we fasted and besought our God for this: and reated
of us.

8:24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priesth,
Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them, 8:25 And weighed une silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering of
the housd, which the king, and his counsellors, and his
lords, and all Israel ent, had offered: 8:26 I even weighed
unto their hand six hundred and alents of silver, and silver
vessels an hundred talents, and of gold atalents; 8:27 Also
twenty basons of gold, of a thousand drams; and twoof fine
copper, precious as gold.

8:28 And I said unto them, Ye are hhe LORD; the vessels are
holy also; and the silver and the gold are a ffering unto
the LORD God of your fathers.

8:29 Watch ye, and keep the weigh them before the chief of
the priests and the Levites, and chieathers of Israel, at
Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the LOSo took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver, and
the the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house
of our God.

8: departed from the river of Ahava on the twelfth day of
the first montto Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was
upon us, and he delivered ushand of the enemy, and of such
as lay in wait by the way.

8:32 And weerusalem, and abode there three days.

8:33 Now on the fourth day was  and the gold and the vessels
weighed in the house of our God by the hemoth the son of
Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son ofand
with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of
Bites; 8:34 By number and by weight of every one: and all
the weight wasat that time.

8:35 Also the children of those that had been carried awere
come out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God o, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventy
and sevtwelve he goats for a sin offering: all this was a
burnt offering unto

8:36 And they delivered the king’s commissions unto the king’s
l, and to the governors on this side the river: and they
furthered the , and the house of God.

9:1 Now when these things were done, the prin me, saying,
The people of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, hparated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according to
thations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the
Perizzites, the JebuAmmonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians,
and the Amorites.

9:2 For theen of their daughters for themselves, and for
their sons: so that the ave mingled themselves with the
people of those lands: yea, the hand oces and rulers hath
been chief in this trespass.

9:3 And when I heardg, I rent my garment and my mantle, and
plucked off the hair of my heabeard, and sat down
astonied.

9:4 Then were assembled unto me every oembled at the words
of the God of Israel, because of the transgressionthat had
been carried away; and I sat astonied until the evening sacriAnd at the evening sacrifice I arose up from my heaviness; and
having ent and my mantle, I fell upon my knees, and spread
out my hands unto y God, 9:6 And said, O my God, I am
ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God: for our
iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is grown up
unto the heavens.

9:7 Since the days of our fathers have we been in a great trespass
unto this day; and for our iniquities have we, our kings, and our
priests, been delivered into thnd of the kings of the lands, to
the sword, to captivity, and to a spoo confusion of face, as
it is this day.

9:8 And now for a little spacth been shewed from the LORD
our God, to leave us a remnant to escape,e us a nail in his
holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and little
reviving in our bondage.

9:9 For we were bondmen; yet our God orsaken us in our
bondage, but hath extended mercy unto us in the sighings of
Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God,air the desolations thereof, and to give us a wall in Judah and in
Jer:10 And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? for we have
forsommandments, 9:11 Which thou hast commanded by thy
servants the prophe, The land, unto which ye go to possess
it, is an unclean land with thss of the people of the lands,
with their abominations, which have fil one end to another
with their uncleanness.

9:12 Now therefore give nughters unto their sons, neither
take their daughters unto your sons, heir peace or their
wealth for ever: that ye may be strong, and eat thf the land,
and leave it for an inheritance to your children for ever.r all that is come upon us for our evil deeds, and for
our great trespss, seeing that thou our God hast punished us less
than our iniquities and hast given us such deliverance as
this; 9:14 Should we again breamandments, and join in
affinity with the people of these abominations?not thou be
angry with us till thou hadst consumed us, so that there so
remnant nor escaping?  9:15 O LORD God of Israel, thou art righteousemain yet escaped, as it is this day: behold, we are before
thee in oues: for we cannot stand before thee because of
this.

10:1 Now when Ezyed, and when he had confessed, weeping and
casting himself down before of God, there assembled unto him
out of Israel a very great congregaen and women and children:
for the people wept very sore.

10:2 And Shhe son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam,
answered and said unto Ezratrespassed against our God, and
have taken strange wives of the peopleland: yet now there is
hope in Israel concerning this thing.

10:3 Nowe let us make a covenant with our God to put away all
the wives, and s born of them, according to the counsel of
my lord, and of those that the commandment of our God; and
let it be done according to the law.

for this matter belongeth unto thee: we also will be with
thee: be of age, and do it.

10:5 Then arose Ezra, and made the chief priests, thend all
Israel, to swear that they should do according to this word. Anre.

10:6 Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God, and went inter of Johanan the son of Eliashib: and when he came thither, he
did ea, nor drink water: for he mourned because of the
transgression of thembeen carried away.

10:7 And they made proclamation throughout Judah am unto
all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themther unto Jerusalem; 10:8 And that whosoever would not come within
thrccording to the counsel of the princes and the elders,
all his substanbe forfeited, and himself separated from the
congregation of those tha carried away.

10:9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered together unto Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, on
tth day of the month; and all the people sat in the street
of the houserembling because of this matter, and for the
great rain.

10:10 And Ezest stood up, and said unto them, Ye have
transgressed, and have takenves, to increase the trespass
of Israel.

10:11 Now therefore make cono the LORD God of your fathers,
and do his pleasure: and separate yourfrom the people of the
land, and from the strange wives.

10:12 Then agregation answered and said with a loud voice,
As thou hast said, so m

10:13 But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and wele to stand without, neither is this a work of one day or
two: for we at have transgressed in this thing.

10:14 Let now our rulers of all ttion stand, and let all
them which have taken strange wives in our cit appointed
times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judguntil the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us.

 Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvah
were employis matter: and Meshullam and Shabbethai the
Levite helped them.

10:16ildren of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest,
with certain chieathers, after the house of their fathers,
and all of them by their namparated, and sat down in the
first day of the tenth month to examine t

10:17 And they made an end with all the men that had taken strange
w first day of the first month.

10:18 And among the sons of the prieste found that had
taken strange wives: namely, of the sons of Jeshua thozadak,
and his brethren; Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedali And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives;
and by, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass.

10:20 And of tf Immer; Hanani, and Zebadiah.

10:21 And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiijah, and Shemaiah,
and Jehiel, and Uzziah.

10:22 And of the sons of ioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael,
Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.

10:23 Alsovites; Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (the same
is Kelita,) Pethahi and Eliezer.

10:24 Of the singers also; Eliashib: and of the porterslum, and
Telem, and Uri.

10:25 Moreover of Israel: of the sons of Parah, and Jeziah,
and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, ah.

10:26 And of the sons of Elam; Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel,  and Jeremoth, and Eliah.

10:27 And of the sons of Zattu; Elioenai, Eattaniah, and
Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.

10:28 Of the sons also ; Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and
Athlai.

10:29 And of the sons of Bllam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub,
and Sheal, and Ramoth.

10:30 And os of Pahathmoab; Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah,
Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalnnui, and Manasseh.

10:31 And of the sons of Harim; Eliezer, Ishijah, Shemaiah,
Shimeon, 10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.

10:33 Of of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet,
Jeremai, Manasseh, a

10:34 Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel, 10:35 Benaiah,
Belluh, 10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, 10:37 Mattaniah,
Mattenai, and0:38 And Bani, and Binnui, Shimei, 10:39 And
Shelemiah, and Nathan, an0:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
10:41 Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shema2 Shallum, Amariah, and
Joseph.

10:43 Of the sons of Nebo; Jeiel, Matbad, Zebina, Jadau,
and Joel, Benaiah.

10:44 All these had taken straand some of them had wives by
whom they had children.




The Book of 1:1 The words of Nehemiah the son of Hachaliah. And it came to pass
in Chisleu, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the
palace, 1:2 T, one of my brethren, came, he and certain men
of Judah; and I asked ting the Jews that had escaped, which
were left of the captivity, and cJerusalem.

1:3 And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of th
there in the province are in great affliction and reproach: the wall
m also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned
with fire.

1:me to pass, when I heard these words, that I sat down and
wept, and moain days, and fasted, and prayed before the God
of heaven, 1:5 And saiech thee, O LORD God of heaven, the
great and terrible God, that keepet and mercy for them that
love him and observe his commandments: 1:6 Lar now be
attentive, and thine eyes open, that thou mayest hear the pr servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night, for the
childre thy servants, and confess the sins of the children
of Israel, which wned against thee: both I and my father’s
house have sinned.

1:7 We very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the
commandments, nor t, nor the judgments, which thou
commandedst thy servant Moses.

1:8 Rebeseech thee, the word that thou commandedst thy
servant Moses, sayingransgress, I will scatter you abroad
among the nations: 1:9 But if ye me, and keep my
commandments, and do them; though there were of you cao the
uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name
there.

1hese are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast
redeemed by thy g and by thy strong hand.

1:11 O LORD, I beseech thee, let now thine entive to the
prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants,e
to fear thy name: and prosper, I pray thee, thy servant this day, anm mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king’s
cupbearer.

2 came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of
Artaxerxes that wine was before him: and I took up the wine,
and gave it unto the I had not been beforetime sad in his
presence.

2:2 Wherefore the kino me, Why is thy countenance sad,
seeing thou art not sick? this is nobut sorrow of heart.
Then I was very sore afraid, 2:3 And said unto tht the king
live for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when te place of my fathers’ sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates
thereosumed with fire?  2:4 Then the king said unto me, For
what dost thou mt? So I prayed to the God of heaven.

2:5 And I said unto the king, If the king, and if thy
servant have found favour in thy sight, that tho send me
unto Judah, unto the city of my fathers’ sepulchres, that Ild
it.

2:6 And the king said unto me, (the queen also sitting by him, long shall thy journey be? and when wilt thou return? So it
pleased tnd me; and I set him a time.

2:7 Moreover I said unto the king, If itease the king, let letters
be given me to the governors beyond the rivhey may convey me
over till I come into Judah; 2:8 And a letter unto Ae keeper of
the king’s forest, that he may give me timber to make behe
gates of the palace which appertained to the house, and for the wality, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the king
granted mng to the good hand of my God upon me.

2:9 Then I came to the governothe river, and gave them the
king’s letters. Now the king had sent c the army and
horsemen with me.

2:10 When Sanballat the Horonite, ande servant, the
Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly that come
a man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.

2:11 So I rusalem, and was there three days.

2:12 And I arose in the night, I aw men with me; neither
told I any man what my God had put in my heart erusalem:
neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I r2:13 And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before
thell, and to the dung port, and viewed the walls of
Jerusalem, which wedown, and the gates thereof were consumed
with fire.

2:14 Then I went gate of the fountain, and to the king’s
pool: but there was no placeast that was under me to pass.

2:15 Then went I up in the night by tand viewed the wall,
and turned back, and entered by the gate of the vd so
returned.

2:16 And the rulers knew not whither I went, or what Iher
had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the
n to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.

2:17 Then said I u Ye see the distress that we are in, how
Jerusalem lieth waste, and thereof are burned with fire:
come, and let us build up the wall of Jeru we be no more a
reproach.

2:18 Then I told them of the hand of my Gos good upon me; as
also the king’s words that he had spoken unto me.said, Let
us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for twork.

2:19 But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, te, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they laughed us to scorn,
and desand said, What is this thing that ye do? will ye
rebel against the kinhen answered I them, and said unto
them, The God of heaven, he will prtherefore we his servants
will arise and build: but ye have no portionht, nor memorial,
in Jerusalem.

3:1 Then Eliashib the high priest rosis brethren the
priests, and they builded the sheep gate; they sanctifd set
up the doors of it; even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified he tower of Hananeel.

3:2 And next unto him builded the men of Jericht to them
builded Zaccur the son of Imri.

3:3 But the fish gate did tof Hassenaah build, who also laid
the beams thereof, and set up the doof, the locks thereof,
and the bars thereof.

3:4 And next unto them rremoth the son of Urijah, the son of
Koz. And next unto them repaired the son of Berechiah, the
son of Meshezabeel. And next unto them repaithe son of
Baana.

3:5 And next unto them the Tekoites repaired; but t put not
their necks to the work of their LORD.

3:6 Moreover the old red Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and
Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; thhe beams thereof, and set
up the doors thereof, and the locks thereof,ars thereof.

3:7 And next unto them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, he
Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, unto the throne of tr on this side the river.

3:8 Next unto him repaired Uzziel the son oh, of the
goldsmiths.

Next unto him also repaired Hananiah the son ofthe
apothecaries, and they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall.

3t unto them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of
the half paalem.

3:10 And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, egainst his house. And next unto him repaired Hattush the son of
Hashab11 Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahathmoab,
repaiher piece, and the tower of the furnaces.

3:12 And next unto him repaum the son of Halohesh, the ruler
of the half part of Jerusalem, he anhters.

3:13 The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Za built it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and
the bareof, and a thousand cubits on the wall unto the dung
gate.

3:14 But ate repaired Malchiah the son of Rechab, the ruler
of part of Bethhaccbuilt it, and set up the doors thereof,
the locks thereof, and the bar

3:15 But the gate of the fountain repaired Shallun the son of
Colhozuler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it,
and set up the do, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof,
and the wall of the pool of the king’s garden, and unto the
stairs that go down from the city o3:16 After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the
ha Bethzur, unto the place over against the sepulchres of
David, and to at was made, and unto the house of the
mighty.

3:17 After him repairetes, Rehum the son of Bani. Next unto
him repaired Hashabiah, the rulealf part of Keilah, in his
part.

3:18 After him repaired their brethr the son of Henadad, the
ruler of the half part of Keilah.

3:19 And nhim repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of
Mizpah, another piecinst the going up to the armoury at the
turning of the wall.

3:20 Aftuch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired the other
piece, from the tur wall unto the door of the house of
Eliashib the high priest.

3:21 Afpaired Meremoth the son of Urijah the son of Koz
another piece, from t the house of Eliashib even to the end
of the house of Eliashib.

3:22 him repaired the priests, the men of the plain.

3:23 After him repaiin and Hashub over against their house.

After him repaired Azariah thaseiah the son of Ananiah by
his house.

3:24 After him repaired Binnuof Henadad another piece, from
the house of Azariah unto the turning o, even unto the
corner.

3:25 Palal the son of Uzai, over against the  the wall, and
the tower which lieth out from the king’s high house,by the
court of the prison. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh.

3:26the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel, unto the place over
against the water gathe east, and the tower that lieth out.

3:27 After them the Tekoites nother piece, over against the
great tower that lieth out, even unto tf Ophel.

3:28 From above the horse gate repaired the priests, every onst his house.

3:29 After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over a
house.

After him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the ke east gate.

3:30 After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, ahe
sixth son of Zalaph, another piece. After him repaired Meshullam threchiah over against his chamber.

3:31 After him repaired Malchiah thh’s son unto the place of
the Nethinims, and of the merchants, over e gate Miphkad,
and to the going up of the corner.

3:32 And between tp of the corner unto the sheep gate
repaired the goldsmiths and the me4:1 But it came to pass, that when Sanballat heard that we builded thewas wroth, and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews.

4:2 And hfore his brethren and the army of Samaria, and
said, What do these feell they fortify themselves? will
they sacrifice?  will they make an enday? will they revive the
stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned?  4:3 Now
Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they
build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall.

4:4 Hear, O our God; for we are despised: and turn their reproach upon
their own head, and give them for a prey in the land oivity: 4:5
And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotfrom before thee: for they have provoked thee to anger before the
buil6 So built we the wall; and all the wall was joined together unto
the f: for the people had a mind to work.

4:7 But it came to pass, that wlat, and Tobiah, and the
Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdoditthat the walls
of Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began ped,
then they were very wroth, 4:8 And conspired all of them togethernd to fight against Jerusalem, and to hinder it.

4:9 Nevertheless we rayer unto our God, and set a watch
against them day and night, becaus

4:10 And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is
decayere is much rubbish; so that we are not able to build
the wall.

4:11 ries said, They shall not know, neither see, till
we come in the midstmong them, and slay them, and cause the work to
cease.

4:12 And it ca, that when the Jews which dwelt by them came,
they said unto us ten t all places whence ye shall return
unto us they will be upon you.

4:1e set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the
higher places,et the people after their families with their
swords, their spears, anws.

4:14 And I looked, and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to  and to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them:
remember thech is great and terrible, and fight for your
brethren, your sons, and hters, your wives, and your houses.

4:15 And it came to pass, when ou heard that it was known
unto us, and God had brought their counsel tohat we returned
all of us to the wall, every one unto his work.

4:16 me to pass from that time forth, that the half of my
servants wrought k, and the other half of them held both the
spears, the shields, and tnd the habergeons; and the rulers
were behind all the house of Judah.
 which builded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, with
those thavery one with one of his hands wrought in the work,
and with the other a weapon.

4:18 For the builders, every one had his sword girded by hnd
so builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.

4:19 And I the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of
the people, The workand large, and we are separated upon the
wall, one far from another.

t place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort
ye thither our God shall fight for us.

4:21 So we laboured in the work: and halfeld the spears from
the rising of the morning till the stars appeared.wise at the same time said I unto the people, Let every one
with his sdge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be
a guard to us, and the day.

4:23 So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor thhe guard which followed me, none of us put off our clothes, saving
tha put them off for washing.

5:1 And there was a great cry of the peoplheir wives against
their brethren the Jews.

5:2 For there were that sur sons, and our daughters, are
many: therefore we take up corn for the may eat, and live.

5:3 Some also there were that said, We have mortlands,
vineyards, and houses, that we might buy corn, because of the d There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king’s
tr that upon our lands and vineyards.

5:5 Yet now our flesh is as the fr brethren, our children as
their children: and, lo, we bring into bon sons and our
daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are o
bondage already: neither is it in our power to redeem them; for othe our lands and vineyards.

5:6 And I was very angry when I heard theirhese words.

5:7 Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the noble
rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother.a great assembly against them.

5:8 And I said unto them, We after ourhave redeemed our
brethren the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen;ye even
sell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held tpeace, and found nothing to answer.

5:9 Also I said, It is not good t ought ye not to walk in
the fear of our God because of the reproach ohen our
enemies?  5:10 I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, mt of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.

5:, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their
vineyards, thards, and their houses, also the hundredth part
of the money, and of the wine, and the oil, that ye exact of
them.

5:12 Then said they, We ore them, and will require nothing of
them; so will we do as thou saye called the priests, and
took an oath of them, that they should do accthis promise.

5:13 Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out evom
his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, ebe he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said,
Amen, anthe LORD. And the people did according to this
promise.

5:14 Moreovertime that I was appointed to be their governor
in the land of Judah, fentieth year even unto the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the ki, twelve years, I and my
brethren have not eaten the bread of the gove

5:15 But the former governors that had been before me were chargeablpeople, and had taken of them bread and wine, beside forty
shekels of , even their servants bare rule over the people:
but so did not I, bece fear of God.

5:16 Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, nght we
any land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the woMoreover there were at my table an hundred and fifty of the Jews
and reside those that came unto us from among the heathen that
are about usw that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six
choice sheepwls were prepared for me, and once in ten days
store of all sorts of wr all this required not I the bread
of the governor, because the bonday upon this people.

5:19 Think upon me, my God, for good, according t I have
done for this people.

6:1 Now it came to pass when Sanballat,h, and Geshem the
Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I h the
wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though at that  not set up the doors upon the gates;) 6:2 That Sanballat and
Geshem s, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one of
the villages in th Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.

6:3 And I sent messengers u, saying, I am doing a great work,
so that I cannot come down: why shok cease, whilst I leave
it, and come down to you?  6:4 Yet they sent ur times after
this sort; and I answered them after the same manner.

6t Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth
time with an r in his hand; 6:6 Wherein was written, It is
reported among the heathshmu saith it, that thou and the
Jews think to rebel: for which cause est the wall, that thou
mayest be their king, according to these words thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at
Jerusalem, say is a king in Judah: and now shall it be
reported to the king accordine words. Come now therefore, and
let us take counsel together.

6:8 Th unto him, saying, There are no such things done as
thou sayest, but tt them out of thine own heart.

6:9 For they all made us afraid, sayinands shall be weakened
from the work, that it be not done. Now therefo strengthen
my hands.

6:10 Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiaf Delaiah
the son of Mehetabeel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us er in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the
doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the
night will they come to slay thee.

6:11 And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that,
being as I am, would go into the temple to sae? I will not
go in.

6:12 And, lo, I perceived that God had not sent at he
pronounced this prophecy against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat ham.

6:13 Therefore was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, a that they might have matter for an evil report, that they
might repro14 My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to these
theand on the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the
prophets, that woulme in fear.

6:15 So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth daynth
Elul, in fifty and two days.

6:16 And it came to pass, that when mies heard thereof, and
all the heathen that were about us saw these t were much
cast down in their own eyes: for they perceived that this wrought of our God.

6:17 Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah setters unto
Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them.

6:18 Forwere many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the
son in law of Shniah the son of Arah; and his son Johanan had
taken the daughter of Mee son of Berechiah.

6:19 Also they reported his good deeds before me,ered my words
to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

7:1 e to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the
doors, and thand the singers and the Levites were appointed,
7:2 That I gave my bro, and Hananiah the ruler of the
palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he hful man, and feared
God above many.

7:3 And I said unto them, Let nos of Jerusalem be opened
until the sun be hot; and while they stand bythe
doors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of
Jerlem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against
his hous Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein,
anses were not builded.

7:5 And my God put into mine heart to gather to nobles, and
the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by.
And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at thand found written therein, 7:6 These are the children of the
province, up out of the captivity, of those that had been
carried away, whom Nezar the king of Babylon had carried
away, and came again to Jerusalem ah, every one unto his
city; 7:7 Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehriah,
Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum,
 number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was
this; 7:8 The cen of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and
two.

7:9 The childrphatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

7:10 The children of Arah, sififty and two.

7:11 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of JeJoab,
two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.

7:12 The children  thousand two hundred fifty and four.

7:13 The children of Zattu, eigforty and five.

7:14 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threes5 The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight.

7:16 The childai, six hundred twenty and eight.

7:17 The children of Azgad, two tho hundred twenty and two.

7:18 The children of Adonikam, six hundred tand seven.

7:19 The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and s7:20 The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five.

7:21 The childr of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

7:22 The children of Hashum, three hnty and eight.

7:23 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and fThe children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve.

7:25 The children of Gty and five.

7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred foursight.

7:27 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

7:28 Thethazmaveth, forty and two.

7:29 The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah,oth, seven hundred
forty and three.

7:30 The men of Ramah and Gaba, s twenty and one.

7:31 The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and tThe men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three.

7:33 The men or Nebo, fifty and two.

7:34 The children of the other Elam, a thousanred fifty and
four.

7:35 The children of Harim, three hundred and twe The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

7:37 The child, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and
one.

7:38 The children ofhree thousand nine hundred and thirty.

7:39 The priests: the children, of the house of Jeshua,
nine hundred seventy and three.

7:40 The chImmer, a thousand fifty and two.

7:41 The children of Pashur, a thousndred forty and seven.

7:42 The children of Harim, a thousand and sev7:43 The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the
childevah, seventy and four.

7:44 The singers: the children of Asaph, an hy and eight.

7:45 The porters: the children of Shallum, the children e
children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, t of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight.

7:46 The Nethinims: the chila, the children of Hashupha,
the children of Tabbaoth, 7:47 The childr, the children of
Sia, the children of Padon, 7:48 The children of Lebhildren
of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, 7:49 The children of Hanandren of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 7:50 The children of
Reaiah, th of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, 7:51 The
children of Gazzam, the chzza, the children of Phaseah,
7:52 The children of Besai, the children, the children of
Nephishesim, 7:53 The children of Bakbuk, the childrha, the
children of Harhur, 7:54 The children of Bazlith, the children, the children of Harsha, 7:55 The children of Barkos, the
children ofe children of Tamah, 7:56 The children of
Neziah, the children of Hati The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the
chilhereth, the children of Perida, 7:58 The children of
Jaala, the childrkon, the children of Giddel, 7:59 The
children of Shephatiah, the chilttil, the children of
Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon.

7:60he Nethinims, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were
three hunty and two.

7:61 And these were they which went up also from Telmelahha,
Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father’sr their seed, whether they were of Israel.

7:62 The children of Delaihildren of Tobiah, the children of
Nekoda, six hundred forty and two.
of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz,
the chilrzillai, which took one of the daughters of
Barzillai the Gileadite to was called after their name.

7:64 These sought their register among were reckoned by
genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they,ed, put
from the priesthood.

7:65 And the Tirshatha said unto them, thould not eat of the
most holy things, till there stood up a priest wid Thummim.

7:66 The whole congregation together was forty and two thoe
hundred and threescore, 7:67 Beside their manservants and their
maidof whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty
and seven: and  two hundred forty and five singing men and
singing women.

7:68 Theirseven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two
hundred forty and five:r camels, four hundred thirty and
five: six thousand seven hundred andses.

7:70 And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. Th gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons,
five hunhirty priests’ garments.

7:71 And some of the chief of the fathers  treasure of the
work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand dred
pound of silver.

7:72 And that which the rest of the people gavey thousand
drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threesseven priests’ garments.

7:73 So the priests, and the Levites, and s, and the
singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and allelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children
of  in their cities.

8:1 And all the people gathered themselves togethern into
the street that was before the water gate; and they spake unto cribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the LORD had
commanel.

8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation b and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon the
firste seventh month.

8:3 And he read therein before the street that was bwater
gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the womense that could understand; and the ears of all the people were
attentivbook of the law.

8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood,y had
made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shemaah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and
on hnd, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and
Hashbadana, Zed Meshullam.

8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the peohe
was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people st6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people
answere, with lifting up their hands: and they bowed
their heads, and worshipRD with their faces to the ground.

8:7 Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai,
Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the
Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stood
in their place.

8:8 So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave
the sense, and causedhem to understand the reading.

8:9 And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatzra the priest the
scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, sai the
people, This day is holy unto the LORD your God; mourn not, nor wall the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.

8:10 Then o them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the
sweet, and send portioem for whom nothing is prepared: for
this day is holy unto our LORD: ne sorry; for the joy of
the LORD is your strength.

8:11 So the Leviteall the people, saying, Hold your peace,
for the day is holy; neither ieved.

8:12 And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, aportions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood
the worere declared unto them.

8:13 And on the second day were gathered toge of the
fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto ra the
scribe, even to understand the words of the law.

8:14 And theytten in the law which the LORD had commanded by
Moses, that the childrl should dwell in booths in the feast
of the seventh month: 8:15 And thould publish and proclaim
in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, sayi unto the
mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrt, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make
booths, as ien.

8:16 So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and
ints of the house of God, and in the street of the water
gate, and in th the gate of Ephraim.

8:17 And all the congregation of them that weren out of the
captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for sincof
Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel
d there was very great gladness.

8:18 Also day by day, from the firste last day, he read in
the book of the law of God. And they kept the fdays; and on
the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the 9:1 Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children of
Isrssembled with fasting, and with sackclothes, and earth
upon them.

9:2eed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers,
and stood and cheir sins, and the iniquities of their
fathers.

9:3 And they stood upplace, and read in the book of the law
of the LORD their God one fourtthe day; and another fourth
part they confessed, and worshipped the LOd.

9:4 Then stood up upon the stairs, of the Levites, Jeshua, and Ban, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and cried
with a lounto the LORD their God.

9:5 Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Baniah,
Sherebiah, Hodijah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, Stand up and LORD your God for ever and ever: and blessed be thy glorious name,
whted above all blessing and praise.

9:6 Thou, even thou, art LORD alonst made heaven, the heaven
of heavens, with all their host, the earth,hings that are
therein, the seas, and all that is therein, and thou prem
all; and the host of heaven worshippeth thee.

9:7 Thou art the LORd, who didst choose Abram, and broughtest
him forth out of Ur of the Cd gavest him the name of
Abraham; 9:8 And foundest his heart faithful ee, and madest a
covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites,tes,
the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Jebusites, and the
Girgo give it, I say, to his seed, and hast performed thy
words; for thou us: 9:9 And didst see the affliction of our
fathers in Egypt, and hear cry by the Red sea; 9:10 And
shewedst signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, his servants, and
on all the people of his land: for thou knewest that
proudly against them. So didst thou get thee a name, as it is this
dAnd thou didst divide the sea before them, so that they went
through tf the sea on the dry land; and their persecutors
thou threwest into thas a stone into the mighty waters.

9:12 Moreover thou leddest them inby a cloudy pillar; and in
the night by a pillar of fire, to give themhe way wherein
they should go.

9:13 Thou camest down also upon mount  spakest with them
from heaven, and gavest them right judgments, and tgood
statutes and commandments: 9:14 And madest known unto them thy ho, and commandedst them precepts, statutes, and laws, by the
hand of Mothy servant: 9:15 And gavest them bread from heaven for
their hunger, test forth water for them out of the rock for
their thirst, and promisthat they should go in to possess
the land which thou hadst sworn to g

9:16 But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened their neckrkened not to thy commandments, 9:17 And refused to obey,
neither weref thy wonders that thou didst among them; but
hardened their necks, an rebellion appointed a captain to
return to their bondage: but thou arady to pardon, gracious
and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindorsookest
them not.

9:18 Yea, when they had made them a molten calf,  This is thy
God that brought thee up out of Egypt, and had wrought grations; 9:19 Yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsookest them
not in tlderness: the pillar of the cloud departed not from them
by day, to len the way; neither the pillar of fire by night,
to shew them light, an wherein they should go.

9:20 Thou gavest also thy good spirit to ins, and
withheldest not thy manna from their mouth, and gavest them water thirst.

9:21 Yea, forty years didst thou sustain them in the wilderhat they lacked nothing; their clothes waxed not old, and their feet
s

9:22 Moreover thou gavest them kingdoms and nations, and didst divido corners: so they possessed the land of Sihon, and the land
of the kibon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.

9:23 Their children also multhou as the stars of heaven, and
broughtest them into the land, concernhou hadst promised to
their fathers, that they should go in to possess So the children went in and possessed the land, and thou
subduedst be the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and
gavest them into thewith their kings, and the people of the
land, that they might do with y would.

9:25 And they took strong cities, and a fat land, and posses
full of all goods, wells digged, vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruitabundance: so they did eat, and were filled, and became fat,
and deligselves in thy great goodness.

9:26 Nevertheless they were disobedientlled against thee,
and cast thy law behind their backs, and slew thy pich
testified against them to turn them to thee, and they wrought greaions.

9:27 Therefore thou deliveredst them into the hand of their ene vexed them: and in the time of their trouble, when they cried unto
theardest them from heaven; and according to thy manifold
mercies thou gm saviours, who saved them out of the hand of
their enemies.

9:28 Buty had rest, they did evil again before thee:
therefore leftest thou thland of their enemies, so that they
had the dominion over them: yet whturned, and cried unto
thee, thou heardest them from heaven; and many t thou
deliver them according to thy mercies; 9:29 And testifiedst aga that thou mightest bring them again unto thy law: yet they dealt
prouearkened not unto thy commandments, but sinned against
thy judgments,  man do, he shall live in them;) and
withdrew the shoulder, and hardeneck, and would not hear.

9:30 Yet many years didst thou forbear them,fiedst against
them by thy spirit in thy prophets: yet would they not 
therefore gavest thou them into the hand of the people of the lands.
rtheless for thy great mercies’ sake thou didst not utterly
consume forsake them; for thou art a gracious and merciful
God.

9:32 Now ther God, the great, the mighty, and the terrible
God, who keepest covenany, let not all the trouble seem
little before thee, that hath come upour kings, on our
princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, andthers,
and on all thy people, since the time of the kings of Assyria uay.

9:33 Howbeit thou art just in all that is brought upon us; for th right, but we have done wickedly: 9:34 Neither have our
kings, our prr priests, nor our fathers, kept thy law, nor
hearkened unto thy commad thy testimonies, wherewith thou
didst testify against them.

9:35 Foe not served thee in their kingdom, and in thy great
goodness that thohem, and in the large and fat land which
thou gavest before them, neitthey from their wicked works.

9:36 Behold, we are servants this day, e land that thou
gavest unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and hereof,
behold, we are servants in it: 9:37 And it yieldeth much increthe kings whom thou hast set over us because of our sins: also they
haon over our bodies, and over our cattle, at their pleasure,
and we areat distress.

9:38 And because of all this we make a sure covenant, an
and our princes, Levites, and priests, seal unto it.

10:1 Now those d were, Nehemiah, the Tirshatha, the son of
Hachaliah, and Zidkijah, 1h, Azariah, Jeremiah, 10:3 Pashur,
Amariah, Malchijah, 10:4 Hattush, SMalluch, 10:5 Harim,
Meremoth, Obadiah, 10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruchullam,
Abijah, Mijamin, 10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah: these were the
10:9 And the Levites: both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the
sd, Kadmiel; 10:10 And their brethren, Shebaniah,
Hodijah, Kelita, Pelah, Hanan, 10:11 Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah, 10:12
Zaccur, Sherebiah, Sheb:13 Hodijah, Bani, Beninu.

10:14 The chief of the people; Parosh, Pahlam, Zatthu, Bani,
10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai, 10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, 17 Ater,
Hizkijah, Azzur, 10:18 Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai, 10:19 Hariph, Nebai, 10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir, 10:21 Meshezabeel, Zadok,
Jad2 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah, 10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,
10:24 Halloha, Shobek, 10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
10:26 And Ahijah, Hanan,27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah.

10:28 And the rest of the people, the prieevites, the
porters, the singers, the Nethinims, and all they that hadd
themselves from the people of the lands unto the law of God, their
wr sons, and their daughters, every one having knowledge,
and having ung; 10:29 They clave to their brethren, their
nobles, and entered into d into an oath, to walk in God’s
law, which was given by Moses the sGod, and to observe and
do all the commandments of the LORD our Lord, gments and
his statutes; 10:30 And that we would not give our daughterpeople of the land, not take their daughters for our sons: 10:31 And
iple of the land bring ware or any victuals on the sabbath
day to sell,would not buy it of them on the sabbath, or on
the holy day: and that eave the seventh year, and the
exaction of every debt.

10:32 Also we ances for us, to charge ourselves yearly with
the third part of a shekservice of the house of our God;
10:33 For the shewbread, and for the meat offering, and for
the continual burnt offering, of the sabbaths, moons, for
the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin ofmake an atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our4 And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and the
people,ood offering, to bring it into the house of our God,
after the houses ers, at times appointed year by year, to
burn upon the altar of the LO as it is written in the law:
10:35 And to bring the firstfruits of ound the firstfruits
of all fruit of all trees, year by year, unto the he LORD:
10:36 Also the firstborn of our sons, and of our cattle, as itn in the law, and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks,
to br house of our God, unto the priests that minister in
the house of our And that we should bring the firstfruits
of our dough, and our offerinruit of all manner of trees,
of wine and of oil, unto the priests, to rs of the house of
our God; and the tithes of our ground unto the Levihe same
Levites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage the priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites, when
the Levitthes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of
the tithes unto the our God, to the chambers, into the
treasure house.

10:39 For the chilael and the children of Levi shall bring
the offering of the corn, of e, and the oil, unto the
chambers, where are the vessels of the sanctu priests that
minister, and the porters, and the singers: and we will e
the house of our God.

11:1 And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jee rest of the
people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jthe
holy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities.

11:2 And the ssed all the men, that willingly offered
themselves to dwell at JerusaNow these are the chief of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem:
but is of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in their
cities, to wit,  priests, and the Levites, and the
Nethinims, and the children of Soloants.

11:4 And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, ae children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah the son of
Ue son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of
Shephatiah, the sonleel, of the children of Perez; 11:5 And
Maaseiah the son of Baruch, tColhozeh, the son of Hazaiah,
the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, tZechariah, the son
of Shiloni.

11:6 All the sons of Perez that dwelt lem were four hundred
threescore and eight valiant men.

11:7 And thesns of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam,
the son of Joed, the son o the son of Kolaiah, the son of
Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son oh.

11:8 And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.
 Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer: and Judah the son
of Senuaond over the city.

11:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, 1:11 Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of
Zado of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, was the ruler of the
house of God.

1heir brethren that did the work of the house were eight
hundred twentyand Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of
Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, techariah, the son of Pashur,
the son of Malchiah.

11:13 And his brethof the fathers, two hundred forty and
two: and Amashai the son of Azaron of Ahasai, the son of
Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, 11:14 And then, mighty men
of valour, an hundred twenty and eight: and their oversediel, the son of one of the great men.

11:15 Also of the Levites: Sheon of Hashub, the son of
Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of BunAnd Shabbethai
and Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, had the overshe
outward business of the house of God.

11:17 And Mattaniah the son the son of Zabdi, the son of
Asaph, was the principal to begin the than prayer: and
Bakbukiah the second among his brethren, and Abda the soua,
the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.

11:18 All the Levites in tity were two hundred fourscore and
four.

11:19 Moreover the porters, lmon, and their brethren that
kept the gates, were an hundred seventy 11:20 And the residue of Israel, of the priests, and the Levites, were cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.

11:21 But the Nethinin Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa were over
the Nethinims.

11:22 The overse the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son
of Bani, the son of Hashabin of Mattaniah, the son of Micha.
Of the sons of Asaph, the singers wee business of the house
of God.

11:23 For it was the king’s commandcerning them, that a
certain portion should be for the singers, due foday.

11:24 And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the children of Zon of Judah, was at the king’s hand in all matters concerning the
pe25 And for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of
Juat Kirjatharba, and in the villages thereof, and at Dibon,
and in the thereof, and at Jekabzeel, and in the villages
thereof, 11:26 And at J at Moladah, and at Bethphelet, 11:27
And at Hazarshual, and at Beershn the villages thereof,
11:28 And at Ziklag, and at Mekonah, and in th thereof,
11:29 And at Enrimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth, 11:30 dullam, and in their villages, at Lachish, and the fields thereof, at
nd in the villages thereof. And they dwelt from Beersheba
unto the valnom.

11:31 The children also of Benjamin from Geba dwelt at Michmash, and
Aija, and Bethel, and in their villages.

11:32 And at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, 11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, 11:35 Lod, and Ono, the valley of
craftsmen.

11:36 And of the Levites were divisions in Judah, and in Benjamin.

12:1 Now these are theests and the Levites that went up with
Zerubbabel the son of Shealtielua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush, 12:3 Shechum, Meremoth, 12:4
Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah, 12:5 Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgemaiah,
and Joiarib, Jedaiah, 12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. Thes chief of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua.

12r the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah,
and Mattaniawas over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren.

12:9 Also Bakbukiah aeir brethren, were over against them
in the watches.

12:10 And Jeshuaakim, Joiakim also begat Eliashib, and
Eliashib begat Joiada, 12:11 Anegat Jonathan, and Jonathan
begat Jaddua.

12:12 And in the days of Jo priests, the chief of the
fathers: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, 12:13 Of Ezra,
Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan; 12:14 Of Melicu, Jonahebaniah, Joseph; 12:15 Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai; 12:16 Of
riah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam; 12:17 Of Abijah, Zichri; of
Miniamin, o, Piltai: 12:18 Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah,
Jehonathan; 12:19 And, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; 12:20 Of
Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber; ah, Hashabiah; of
Jedaiah, Nethaneel.

12:22 The Levites in the days oEliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and
Jaddua, were recorded chief of the  also the priests, to the
reign of Darius the Persian.

12:23 The sonsthe chief of the fathers, were written in the
book of the chronicles,  the days of Johanan the son of
Eliashib.

12:24 And the chief of the shabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua
the son of Kadmiel, with their brethrenst them, to praise
and to give thanks, according to the commandment of man of
God, ward over against ward.

12:25 Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, eshullam, Talmon, Akkub,
were porters keeping the ward at the thresholgates.

12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, thezadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the
priesibe.

12:27 And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they soughtes out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep
the deith gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with
singing, with cymbals,s, and with harps.

12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered themseler, both
out of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the f Netophathi; 12:29 Also from the house of Gilgal, and out of the
fiel and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villages
round about J
12:30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and
purifiple, and the gates, and the wall.

12:31 Then I brought up the princesupon the wall, and
appointed two great companies of them that gave thaof one
went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate: 12:3r them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah, 12:33 And
Azar and Meshullam, 12:34 Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah,
and Jeremiah, certain of the priests’ sons with trumpets;
namely, Zechariah the sthan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of
Mattaniah, the son of Michaiah,  Zaccur, the son of Asaph:
12:36 And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azarai, Gilalai, Maai,
Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instr David
the man of God, and Ezra the scribe before them.

12:37 And at ain gate, which was over against them, they went
up by the stairs of t David, at the going up of the wall,
above the house of David, even unater gate eastward.

12:38 And the other company of them that gave thaover against
them, and I after them, and the half of the people upon tom
beyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall; 12:39 Ane the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above the
fish gateower of Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even unto
the sheep gate: andood still in the prison gate.

12:40 So stood the two companies of thee thanks in the house
of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with mnd the
priests; Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, ZechaHananiah, with trumpets; 12:42 And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and
Eleazar, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer.
And the singers sawith Jezrahiah their overseer.

12:43 Also that day they offered greats, and rejoiced: for
God had made them rejoice with great joy: the wiv the
children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even af2:44 And at that time were some appointed over the chambers for the
trfor the offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes,
to gather out of the fields of the cities the portions of
the law for the priestes: for Judah rejoiced for the
priests and for the Levites that waitednd both the singers and the porters kept the ward of their God,
and ththe purification, according to the commandment of
David, and of Solomo
12:46 For in the days of David and Asaph of old there were chief of
t and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God.

12:47 And all Israel  of Zerubbabel, and in the days of
Nehemiah, gave the portions of the  the porters, every day
his portion: and they sanctified holy things uvites; and the
Levites sanctified them unto the children of Aaron.

13 day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the
people; ands found written, that the Ammonite and the
Moabite should not come intregation of God for ever; 13:2
Because they met not the children of Isread and with water,
but hired Balaam against them, that he should cureit our
God turned the curse into a blessing.

13:3 Now it came to pas they had heard the law, that they
separated from Israel all the mixed.

13:4 And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of er of the house of our God, was allied unto Tobiah: 13:5 And he
had prr him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the
meat offerings, tcense, and the vessels, and the tithes of
the corn, the new wine, and hich was commanded to be given
to the Levites, and the singers, and th and the offerings of
the priests.

13:6 But in all this time was not alem: for in the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon to the king, and
after certain days obtained I leave of the king: 13:7e to
Jerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiaeparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.

13:8 And it  sore: therefore I cast forth all the household
stuff to Tobiah out ofer.

13:9 Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and thitheI again the vessels of the house of God, with the meat
offering and thcense.

13:10 And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had notn them: for the Levites and the singers, that did the work, were
fled o his field.

13:11 Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is of
God forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them in their
12 Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine
and to the treasuries.

13:13 And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Sh priest,
and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next t Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah: for they were
counted and their office was to distribute unto their
brethren.

13:14 Remembey God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good
deeds that I have donhouse of my God, and for the offices
thereof.

13:15 In those days saw some treading wine presses on the
sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, aasses; as also wine,
grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, whicght into
Jerusalem on the sabbath day: and I testified against them inerein they sold victuals.

13:16 There dwelt men of Tyre also therein,ught fish, and
all manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the chudah, and in Jerusalem.

13:17 Then I contended with the nobles of Judid unto them,
What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabb:18 Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this
eviland upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel
by profaning t.

13:19 And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began tefore the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut,
and charthey should not be opened till after the sabbath: and
some of my servat the gates, that there should no burden be
brought in on the sabbath  So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged without
Jerusr twice.

13:21 Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Whyabout the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that
 came they no more on the sabbath.

13:22 And I commanded the Levites should cleanse themselves,
and that they should come and keep the gatetify the sabbath
day.

Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, an according to
the greatness of thy mercy.

13:23 In those days also sathat had married wives of Ashdod,
of Ammon, and of Moab: 13:24 And then spake half in the
speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews, but
according to the language of each people.

13:25 And I contended, and cursed them, and smote certain of
them, and plucked off their hae them swear by God, saying,
Ye shall not give your daughters unto theor take their
daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.

13:26 Did  king of Israel sin by these things? yet among
many nations was there ke him, who was beloved of his God,
and God made him king over all Isrrtheless even him did
outlandish women cause to sin.

13:27 Shall we tn unto you to do all this great evil, to
transgress against our God instrange wives?  13:28 And one
of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashh priest, was son in
law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased
13:29 Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the
priesthoand the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.

13:30 Thus clthem from all strangers, and appointed the wards
of the priests and thevery one in his business; 13:31 And
for the wood offering, at times a and for the firstfruits.
Remember me, O my God, for good.




The Boo

1:1 Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus, (this is Ahasuerusned, from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred and
seven and twenes:) 1:2 That in those days, when the king
Ahasuerus sat on the throneingdom, which was in Shushan the
palace, 1:3 In the third year of his made a feast unto all
his princes and his servants; the power of Persia, the
nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him: 1:4 When the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honour of his
excellent ma days, even an hundred and fourscore days.

1:5 And when these days we, the king made a feast unto all
the people that were present in Shushace, both unto great
and small, seven days, in the court of the gardenng’s
palace; 1:6 Where were white, green, and blue, hangings, fastenords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble:
tre of gold and silver, upon a pavement of red, and blue,
and white, anarble.

1:7 And they gave them drink in vessels of gold, (the vessels se one from another,) and royal wine in abundance, according to
the st king.

1:8 And the drinking was according to the law; none did compelhe king had appointed to all the officers of his house, that they
shouording to every man’s pleasure.

1:9 Also Vashti the queen made a fe women in the royal
house which belonged to king Ahasuerus.

1:10 On t day, when the heart of the king was merry with
wine, he commanded Meha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha,
Zethar, and Carcas, the seven chamberserved in the presence
of Ahasuerus the king, 1:11 To bring Vashti there the king
with the crown royal, to shew the people and the princes hfor she was fair to look on.

1:12 But the queen Vashti refused to coming’s commandment by
his chamberlains: therefore was the king very whis anger
burned in him.

1:13 Then the king said to the wise men, whi times, (for so
was the king’s manner toward all that knew law and j4 And
the next unto him was Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Mere and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, which saw
the kin and which sat the first in the kingdom;) 1:15 What
shall we do unto tashti according to law, because she hath
not performed the commandmentg Ahasuerus by the
chamberlains?  1:16 And Memucan answered before thethe
princes, Vashti the queen hath not done wrong to the king only, bu all the princes, and to all the people that are in all the
provinces ng Ahasuerus.

1:17 For this deed of the queen shall come abroad unto  so
that they shall despise their husbands in their eyes, when it shalted, The king Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought
in bebut she came not.

1:18 Likewise shall the ladies of Persia and Media y unto
all the king’s princes, which have heard of the deed of the qshall there arise too much contempt and wrath.

1:19 If it please the here go a royal commandment from him,
and let it be written among the e Persians and the Medes,
that it be not altered, That Vashti come no e king
Ahasuerus; and let the king give her royal estate unto another tter than she.

1:20 And when the king’s decree which he shall make blished
throughout all his empire, (for it is great,) all the wives sh their husbands honour, both to great and small.

1:21 And the saying e king and the princes; and the king did
according to the word of MemuFor he sent letters into all
the king’s provinces, into every proving to the writing
thereof, and to every people after their language, than
should bear rule in his own house, and that it should be published
to the language of every people.

2:1 After these things, when the wrahasuerus was appeased,
he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, an decreed
against her.

2:2 Then said the king’s servants that ministhim, Let there
be fair young virgins sought for the king: 2:3 And let 
appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may
gtogether all the fair young virgins unto Shushan the palace, to
the ho women, unto the custody of Hege the king’s
chamberlain, keeper of tand let their things for
purification be given them: 2:4 And let the mch pleaseth the
king be queen instead of Vashti.

And the thing pleaseg; and he did so.

2:5 Now in Shushan the palace there was a certain J name was
Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kismite; 2:6 Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the
captivity ad been carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah,
whom Nebuchadnezzar f Babylon had carried away.

2:7 And he brought up Hadassah, that is, is uncle’s daughter:
for she had neither father nor mother, and the air and
beautiful; whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were deadr his own daughter.

2:8 So it came to pass, when the king’s commandis decree was
heard, and when many maidens were gathered together untohe
palace, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was brought also unto s house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.

2:9 And the med him, and she obtained kindness of him; and
he speedily gave her herr purification, with such things as
belonged to her, and seven maidensre meet to be given her,
out of the king’s house: and he preferred h maids unto the
best place of the house of the women.

2:10 Esther hadd her people nor her kindred: for Mordecai
had charged her that she shhew it.

2:11 And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the wouse, to know how Esther did, and what should become of her.

2:12 Now  maid’s turn was come to go in to king Ahasuerus,
after that she hadve months, according to the manner of the
women, (for so were the days purifications accomplished, to
wit, six months with oil of myrrh, ands with sweet odours,
and with other things for the purifying of the wo3 Then thus
came every maiden unto the king; whatsoever she desired war
to go with her out of the house of the women unto the king’s house the evening she went, and on the morrow she returned into the
second  the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king’s
chamberlain, whie concubines: she came in unto the king no
more, except the king deliger, and that she were called by
name.

2:15 Now when the turn of Estheghter of Abihail the uncle of
Mordecai, who had taken her for his daugcome to go in unto
the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the kamberlain,
the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favsight of all them that looked upon her.

2:16 So Esther was taken untorus into his house royal in
the tenth month, which is the month Tebethhe seventh year of his
reign.

2:17 And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained
grace and favour in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he
set the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen instead of
Vashti.

2:18 Then the king made a great feast unto all his princes and his
servants, even Esther’s feast; and he mease to the provinces,
and gave gifts, according to the state of the k9 And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, then
Mo in the king’s gate.

2:20 Esther had not yet shewed her kindred norle; as Mordecai
had charged her: for Esther did the commandment of Morke as
when she was brought up with him.

2:21 In those days, while Morin the king’s gate, two of the
king’s chamberlains, Bigthan and Tethose which kept the door,
were wroth, and sought to lay hands on the uerus.

2:22 And the thing was known to Mordecai, who told it unto Estueen; and Esther certified the king thereof in Mordecai’s name.

2:2n inquisition was made of the matter, it was found out;
therefore theyh hanged on a tree: and it was written in the
book of the chronicles bking.

3:1 After these things did king Ahasuerus promote Haman the sondatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all
the prt were with him.

3:2 And all the king’s servants, that were in the ate, bowed,
and reverenced Haman: for the king had so commanded concerordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence.

3:3 Then the king’s servats, which were in the king’s gate, said unto
Mordecai, Why transgresou the king’s commandment?  3:4 Now it
came to pass, when they spakeo him, and he hearkened not
unto them, that they told Haman, to see whecai’s matters
would stand: for he had told them that he was a Jew.
hen Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence,
then wasll of wrath.

3:6 And he thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone;had
shewed him the people of Mordecai: wherefore Haman sought to destre Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus, even
the pMordecai.

3:7 In the first month, that is, the month Nisan, in the twr
of king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman froy, and from month to month, to the twelfth month, that is,
the month AAnd Haman said unto king Ahasuerus, There is a certain people
scattered dispersed among the people in all the provinces
of thy kingdom; and s are diverse from all people; neither
keep they the king’s laws: tht is not for the king’s profit
to suffer them.

3:9 If it please the it be written that they may be
destroyed: and I will pay ten thousand silver to the hands
of those that have the charge of the business, tonto the
king’s treasuries.

3:10 And the king took his ring from hisgave it unto Haman
the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews’ enemnd the king said unto Haman, The silver is given to thee, the
people awith them as it seemeth good to thee.

3:12 Then were the king’s scr on the thirteenth day of the
first month, and there was written accorll that Haman had
commanded unto the king’s lieutenants, and to the that were
over every province, and to the rulers of every people of evce according to the writing thereof, and to every people after
their l the name of king Ahasuerus was it written, and
sealed with the king3:13 And the letters were sent by posts into all the king’s provinceroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and
old, lidren and women, in one day, even upon the thirteenth
day of the twelfthich is the month Adar, and to take the
spoil of them for a prey.

3:1 of the writing for a commandment to be given in every
province was puto all people, that they should be ready
against that day.

3:15 The pout, being hastened by the king’s commandment, and
the decree was gihan the palace. And the king and Haman sat
down to drink; but the citys perplexed.

4:1 When Mordecai perceived all that was done, Mordecai lothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst
o, and cried with a loud and a bitter cry; 4:2 And came even
before theate: for none might enter into the king’s gate
clothed with sackclotd in every province, whithersoever the king’s commandment and
his de, there was great mourning among the Jews, and fasting,
and weeping, a and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.

4:4 So Esther’s maids and herns came and told it her. Then
was the queen exceedingly grieved; and siment to clothe
Mordecai, and to take away his sackcloth from him: buteived it
not.

4:5 Then called Esther for Hatach, one of the king’s s,
whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandmencai, to know what it was, and why it was.

4:6 So Hatach went forth toto the street of the city,
which was before the king’s gate.

4:7 Ani told him of all that had happened unto him, and of
the sum of the moaman had promised to pay to the king’s
treasuries for the Jews, to d.

4:8 Also he gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that wasShushan to destroy them, to shew it unto Esther, and to
declare it untto charge her that she should go in unto the
king, to make supplicatiom, and to make request before him
for her people.

4:9 And Hatach cameEsther the words of Mordecai.

4:10 Again Esther spake unto Hatach, an commandment unto
Mordecai; 4:11 All the king’s servants, and the pe king’s
provinces, do know, that whosoever, whether man or women, shunto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one
la put him to death, except such to whom the king shall
hold out the gol, that he may live: but I have not been
called to come in unto the kine thirty days.

4:12 And they told to Mordecai Esther’s words.

4:13ecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself
that thou shal the king’s house, more than all the Jews.

4:14 For if thou altoget thy peace at this time, then shall
there enlargement and deliverance he Jews from another
place; but thou and thy father’s house shall be: and who
knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time4:15 Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer, 4:16 Go,
gatheall the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye
for me, and neit drink three days, night or day: I also and
my maidens will fast likewo will I go in unto the king,
which is not according to the law: and i I perish.

4:17 So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all thhad commanded him.

5:1 Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther royal
apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king’s house,nst the king’s house: and the king sat upon his royal throne in
the e, over against the gate of the house.

5:2 And it was so, when the kiher the queen standing in the
court, that she obtained favour in his she king held out to
Esther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. Soew near,
and touched the top of the sceptre.

5:3 Then said the king uWhat wilt thou, queen Esther? and
what is thy request? it shall be eveee to the half of the
kingdom.

5:4 And Esther answered, If it seem goe king, let the king
and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I hed for him.

5:5 Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that hs
Esther hath said. So the king and Haman came to the banquet that
Estpared.

5:6 And the king said unto Esther at the banquet of wine, Whatition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? even
to  the kingdom it shall be performed.

5:7 Then answered Esther, and saition and my request is; 5:8
If I have found favour in the sight of the if it please the
king to grant my petition, and to perform my requestking and
Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and to morrow as the king hath said.

5:9 Then went Haman forth that day j with a glad heart: but
when Haman saw Mordecai in the king’s gate, od not up, nor
moved for him, he was full of indignation against MordeNevertheless Haman refrained himself: and when he came home, he
sent afor his friends, and Zeresh his wife.

5:11 And Haman told them of thehis riches, and the multitude
of his children, and all the things wherg had promoted him,
and how he had advanced him above the princes and f the
king.

5:12 Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let n in
with the king unto the banquet that she had prepared but myself; aow am I invited unto her also with the king.

5:13 Yet all this availehing, so long as I see Mordecai the
Jew sitting at the king’s gate.
 said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let a
gallows be my cubits high, and to morrow speak thou unto
the king that Mordecai ma thereon: then go thou in merrily
with the king unto the banquet. And pleased Haman; and he
caused the gallows to be made.

6:1 On that nighot the king sleep, and he commanded to bring
the book of records of ths; and they were read before the
king.

6:2 And it was found written, cai had told of Bigthana and
Teresh, two of the king’s chamberlains,rs of the door, who
sought to lay hand on the king Ahasuerus.

6:3 Andsaid, What honour and dignity hath been done to
Mordecai for this? The king’s servants that ministered unto
him, There is nothing done forAnd the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come into
the out of the king’s house, to speak unto the king to hang
Mordecai on ths that he had prepared for him.

6:5 And the king’s servants said unold, Haman standeth in
the court. And the king said, Let him come in.
man came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be done
unto the mhe king delighteth to honour? Now Haman thought in
his heart, To whom  king delight to do honour more than to
myself?  6:7 And Haman answere the man whom the king
delighteth to honour, 6:8 Let the royal apparelrought which the
king useth to wear, and the horse that the king ridetd the
crown royal which is set upon his head: 6:9 And let this apparel be delivered to the hand of one of the king’s most noble
princes, tay array the man withal whom the king delighteth
to honour, and bring seback through the street of the city,
and proclaim before him, Thus s done to the man whom the
king delighteth to honour.

6:10 Then the ki Haman, Make haste, and take the apparel and
the horse, as thou hast so even so to Mordecai the Jew, that
sitteth at the king’s gate: let l of all that thou hast
spoken.

6:11 Then took Haman the apparel and and arrayed Mordecai,
and brought him on horseback through the street y, and
proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done unto the man whom  delighteth to honour.

6:12 And Mordecai came again to the king’s gHaman hasted to
his house mourning, and having his head covered.

6:13 told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thing
that had befallen said his wise men and Zeresh his wife unto
him, If Mordecai be of ththe Jews, before whom thou hast
begun to fall, thou shalt not prevail m, but shalt surely
fall before him.

6:14 And while they were yet talim, came the king’s
chamberlains, and hasted to bring Haman unto thehat Esther
had prepared.

7:1 So the king and Haman came to banquet withe queen.

7:2 And the king said again unto Esther on the second day quet of wine, What is thy petition, queen Esther? and it shall be
granand what is thy request? and it shall be performed, even
to the half oom.

7:3 Then Esther the queen answered and said, If I have found favosight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me
at m, and my people at my request: 7:4 For we are sold, I
and my people, tyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we
had been sold for bondmen an, I had held my tongue,
although the enemy could not countervail the amage.

7:5 Then the king Ahasuerus answered and said unto Esther the o is he, and where is he, that durst presume in his heart to do so?
7:r said, The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman.
Then Haman was are the king and the queen.

7:7 And the king arising from the banquet  his wrath went
into the palace garden: and Haman stood up to make reqs
life to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was evil determined
 by the king.

7:8 Then the king returned out of the palace garden inte of
the banquet of wine; and Haman was fallen upon the bed whereon Eshen said the king, Will he force the queen also before me in the
houseord went out of king’s mouth, they covered Haman’s
face.

7:9 And , one of the chamberlains, said before the king,
Behold also, the gallubits high, which Haman had made for
Mordecai, who spoken good for the standeth in the house of
Haman. Then the king said, Hang him thereon.0 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for
Mordeca the king’s wrath pacified.

8:1 On that day did the king Ahasuerus use of Haman the
Jews’ enemy unto Esther the queen. And Mordecai came king;
for Esther had told what he was unto her.

8:2 And the king toring, which he had taken from Haman, and
gave it unto Mordecai. And Esrdecai over the house of
Haman.

8:3 And Esther spake yet again befored fell down at his
feet, and besought him with tears to put away the m Haman
the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jewhen the king held out the golden sceptre toward Esther. So Esther
arosod before the king, 8:5 And said, If it please the king,
and if I have his sight, and the thing seem right before the
king, and I be pleasinyes, let it be written to reverse the
letters devised by Haman the sonatha the Agagite, which he
wrote to destroy the Jews which are in all s provinces: 8:6
For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come ple?
or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred?  8:7 Thg Ahasuerus said unto Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew,
Beholdiven Esther the house of Haman, and him they have
hanged upon the gallse he laid his hand upon the Jews.

8:8 Write ye also for the Jews, as, in the king’s name,
and seal it with the king’s ring: for the wrg which is written in
the king’s name, and sealed with the king’s no man reverse.

8:9 Then were the king’s scribes called at that timhird
month, that is, the month Sivan, on the three and twentieth day
td it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded
unto the Jewe lieutenants, and the deputies and rulers of
the provinces which are  unto Ethiopia, an hundred twenty
and seven provinces, unto every provrding to the writing
thereof, and unto every people after their languao the Jews
according to their writing, and according to their language he wrote in the king Ahasuerus’ name, and sealed it with the
kingd sent letters by posts on horseback, and riders on
mules, camels, andedaries: 8:11 Wherein the king granted
the Jews which were in every cir themselves together, and
to stand for their life, to destroy, to slaause to perish,
all the power of the people and province that would as, both
little ones and women, and to take the spoil of them for a preyn one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, namely, upon the
thiy of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.

8:13 The copy of theor a commandment to be given in every
province was published unto all  that the Jews should be
ready against that day to avenge themselves omies.

8:14 So the posts that rode upon mules and camels went out, bei and pressed on by the king’s commandment. And the decree was
given the palace.

8:15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king apparel of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with a
fine linen and purple: and the city of Shushan rejoiced and
was glad.
 Jews had light, and gladness, and joy, and honour.

8:17 And in every and in every city, whithersoever the
king’s commandment and his deche Jews had joy and gladness,
a feast and a good day. And many of the he land became
Jews; for the fear of the Jews fell upon them.

9:1 Nowelfth month, that is, the month Adar, on the
thirteenth day of the sam king’s commandment and his decree
drew near to be put in execution,y that the enemies of the
Jews hoped to have power over them, (though rned to the
contrary, that the Jews had rule over them that hated them
Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the
 of the king Ahasuerus, to lay hand on such as sought their
hurt: and ld withstand them; for the fear of them fell upon
all people.

9:3 Andulers of the provinces, and the lieutenants, and the
deputies, and offhe king, helped the Jews; because the fear
of Mordecai fell upon them.Mordecai was great in the king’s house, and his fame went out
throughe provinces: for this man Mordecai waxed greater and
greater.

9:5 Thews smote all their enemies with the stroke of the
sword, and slaughtetruction, and did what they would unto
those that hated them.

9:6 Andn the palace the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred
men.

9:7 And Patha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha, 9:8 And Poratha, and
Adalia, and Aridatha, 9:9 And Parmashta, and Arisai, and Aridai, and
Vajezatha, 9:10 The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemy
of the Jews, slew they; but on the spoil laid they not their hand.

9:11 On that day the number of those that were slain in Shushan the
palace was brought befthe king.

9:12 And the king said unto Esther the queen, The Jews have
destroyed five hundred men in Shushan the palace, and the ten sons ofhat have they done in the rest of the king’s provinces? now
what is ion? and it shall be granted thee: or what is thy
request further? andbe done.

9:13 Then said Esther, If it please the king, let it be grane
Jews which are in Shushan to do to morrow also according unto this
dree, and let Haman’s ten sons be hanged upon the gallows.

9:14 And commanded it so to be done: and the decree was given
at Shushan; and t Haman’s ten sons.

9:15 For the Jews that were in Shushan gathered s together on
the fourteenth day also of the month Adar, and slew thremen
at Shushan; but on the prey they laid not their hand.

9:16 But thews that were in the king’s provinces gathered
themselves together, d for their lives, and had rest from
their enemies, and slew of their ty and five thousand, but
they laid not their hands on the prey, 9:17 teenth day of
the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of the same re and
made it a day of feasting and gladness.

9:18 But the Jews that whan assembled together on the
thirteenth day thereof, and on the fourteof; and on the
fifteenth day of the same they rested, and made it a ding
and gladness.

9:19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, that dweltwalled
towns, made the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladneasting, and a good day, and of sending portions one to another.

9:20ai wrote these things, and sent letters unto all the
Jews that were inrovinces of the king Ahasuerus, both nigh
and far, 9:21 To stablish thhem, that they should keep the
fourteenth day of the month Adar, and tth day of the same,
yearly, 9:22 As the days wherein the Jews rested fenemies,
and the month which was turned unto them from sorrow to joy, 
mourning into a good day: that they should make them days of feastingand of sending portions one to another, and gifts to the
poor.

9:23 Aws undertook to do as they had begun, and as Mordecai
had written unto4 Because Haman the son of Hammedatha, the
Agagite, the enemy of all td devised against the Jews to
destroy them, and had cast Pur, that is,o consume them, and
to destroy them; 9:25 But when Esther came before e
commanded by letters that his wicked device, which he devised agains, should return upon his own head, and that he and his sons
should be he gallows.

9:26 Wherefore they called these days Purim after the nam.

Therefore for all the words of this letter, and of that which they concerning this matter, and which had come unto them, 9:27 The
Jews ord took upon them, and upon their seed, and upon all
such as joined the them, so as it should not fail, that
they would keep these two days ao their writing, and
according to their appointed time every year; 9:2these days
should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, ily, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim
shoul from among the Jews, nor the memorial of them perish
from their seedThen Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the
Jew, all authority, to confirm this second letter of Purim.

9:30 And he setters unto all the Jews, to the hundred twenty
and seven provinces of  of Ahasuerus, with words of peace
and truth, 9:31 To confirm these da in their times
appointed, according as Mordecai the Jew and Esther thd
enjoined them, and as they had decreed for themselves and for their
matters of the fastings and their cry.

9:32 And the decree of Esther these matters of Purim; and it
was written in the book.

10:1 And the erus laid a tribute upon the land, and upon the
isles of the sea.

10:he acts of his power and of his might, and the
declaration of the greaordecai, whereunto the king advanced
him, are they not written in the e chronicles of the kings
of Media and Persia?  10:3 For Mordecai the t unto king
Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted of the mof
his brethren, seeking the wealth of his people, and speaking peace s seed.




The Book of Job


1:1 There was a man in the land of Uz, w was Job; and that
man was perfect and upright, and one that feared Gochewed evil.

1:2 And there were born unto him seven sons and three da1:3 His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand
cafive hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and
a very greaold; so that this man was the greatest of all the
men of the east.

1:sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day;
and sent andr their three sisters to eat and to drink with
them.

1:5 And it was se days of their feasting were gone about,
that Job sent and sanctified rose up early in the morning,
and offered burnt offerings according tber of them all: for
Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, andd in their
hearts. Thus did Job continually.

1:6 Now there was a day sons of God came to present
themselves before the LORD, and Satan camethem.

1:7 And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satanswered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and
fr up and down in it.

1:8 And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou consiservant Job,
that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and a
man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?  1:9 Then Satan
answerD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?  1:10 Hast
not thou made anout him, and about his house, and about all
that he hath on every sidet blessed the work of his hands,
and his substance is increased in the1:11 But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he
e thee to thy face.

1:12 And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all thh is in thy
power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satath
from the presence of the LORD.

1:13 And there was a day when his ss daughters were eating
and drinking wine in their eldest brother’s 14 And there came
a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowinasses
feeding beside them: 1:15 And the Sabeans fell upon them, and toay; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the
sword; and  escaped alone to tell thee.

1:16 While he was yet speaking, there caanother, and said, The
fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath bur sheep, and
the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alo
thee.

1:17 While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and sChaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have
carway, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the
sword; and I onlped alone to tell thee.

1:18 While he was yet speaking, there came al, and said, Thy
sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine iest
brother’s house: 1:19 And, behold, there came a great wind from ness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon
the yoand they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell
thee.

1:20 Thee, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and
fell down upon the grworshipped, 1:21 And said, Naked came I
out of my mother’s womb, andall I return thither: the LORD
gave, and the LORD hath taken away; blee name of the LORD.

1:22 In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God 

2:1 Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present
themse the LORD, and Satan came also among them to present
himself before t2:2 And the LORD said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan
ahe LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and
from walkinown in it.

2:3 And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my b,
that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright
hat feareth God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth
fast his intthough thou movedst me against him, to destroy
him without cause.

2:4 answered the LORD, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all
that a man hath ve for his life.

2:5 But put forth thine hand now, and touch his boneflesh,
and he will curse thee to thy face.

2:6 And the LORD said untohold, he is in thine hand; but
save his life.

2:7 So went Satan forthe presence of the LORD, and smote Job
with sore boils from the sole ofunto his crown.

2:8 And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withe sat
down among the ashes.

2:9 Then said his wife unto him, Dost thotain thine
integrity?  curse God, and die.

2:10 But he said unto her,akest as one of the foolish women
speaketh. What? shall we receive gooand of God, and shall we
not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin lips.

2:11 Now when Job’s three friends heard of all this evil tha
upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the
Temanitildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they
had made an appogether to come to mourn with him and to
comfort him.

2:12 And when t up their eyes afar off, and knew him not,
they lifted up their voice, and they rent every one his
mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heaheaven.

2:13 So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days andhts, and none spake a word unto him: for they saw that his grief
was v

3:1 After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day.

3:2 And Joand said, 3:3 Let the day perish wherein I was
born, and the night in  it was said, There is a man child
conceived.

3:4 Let that day be daret not God regard it from above,
neither let the light shine upon it.
t darkness and the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell
upon itblackness of the day terrify it.

3:6 As for that night, let darkness n it; let it not be
joined unto the days of the year, let it not come number of
the months.

3:7 Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyfcome therein.

3:8 Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready up
their mourning.

3:9 Let the stars of the twilight thereof be darklook for
light, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the d
Because it shut not up the doors of my mother’s womb, nor hid sorroe eyes.

3:11 Why died I not from the womb? why did I not give up the  I came out of the belly?  3:12 Why did the knees prevent me? or
why t that I should suck?  3:13 For now should I have lain
still and been qould have slept: then had I been at rest,
3:14 With kings and counsell earth, which build desolate
places for themselves; 3:15 Or with princad gold, who filled
their houses with silver: 3:16 Or as an hidden unt I had
not been; as infants which never saw light.

3:17 There the wicfrom troubling; and there the weary be at
rest.

3:18 There the prisontogether; they hear not the voice of the
oppressor.

3:19 The small anthere; and the servant is free from his
master.

3:20 Wherefore is ligto him that is in misery, and life unto
the bitter in soul; 3:21 Which death, but it cometh not; and
dig for it more than for hid treasures;h rejoice
exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?  3:ight given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?
3:2ighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured
out like the wa For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that
which aid of is come unto me.

3:26 I was not in safety, neither had I rest,was I quiet; yet
trouble came.

4:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered 4:2 If we assay to
commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who cld himself
from speaking?  4:3 Behold, thou hast instructed many, and strengthened the weak hands.

4:4 Thy words have upholden him that was, and thou hast
strengthened the feeble knees.

4:5 But now it is come, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee,
and thou art troubled.

4:6 Is hy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the
uprightness of thy ways?  4er, I pray thee, who ever
perished, being innocent? or where were the  cut off?  4:8
Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow w reap
the same.

4:9 By the blast of God they perish, and by the breat nostrils
are they consumed.

4:10 The roaring of the lion, and the vo fierce lion, and
the teeth of the young lions, are broken.

4:11 The erisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion’s
whelps are scattered4:12 Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a
leof.

4:13 In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep
n men, 4:14 Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all
my bones 

4:15 Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stoodIt stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an
image wasne eyes, there was silence, and I heard a voice,
saying, 4:17 Shall moe more just than God? shall a man be
more pure than his maker?  4:18 Bput no trust in his
servants; and his angels he charged with folly: 4:ch less in
them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in thich are crushed before the moth?  4:20 They are destroyed from
morninng: they perish for ever without any regarding it.

4:21 Doth not theicy which is in them go away? they die,
even without wisdom.

5:1 Call here be any that will answer thee; and to which of
the saints wilt tho:2 For wrath killeth the foolish man, and
envy slayeth the silly one.
seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his
habitation.

5ldren are far from safety, and they are crushed in the
gate, neither iny to deliver them.

5:5 Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketout of the
thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance.

5:6 liction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth
trouble spring out  ground; 5:7 Yet man is born unto trouble, as
the sparks fly upward.

uld seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause: 5:9
Which doe things and unsearchable; marvellous things without
number: 5:10 Who g upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon
the fields: 5:11 To set up on that be low; that those which
mourn may be exalted to safety.

5:12 Hnteth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands
cannot perform thprise.

5:13 He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsfroward is carried headlong.

5:14 They meet with darkness in the day grope in the noonday
as in the night.

5:15 But he saveth the poor frord, from their mouth, and from
the hand of the mighty.

5:16 So the poope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth.

5:17 Behold, happy is the man wrecteth: therefore despise
not thou the chastening of the Almighty: 5: maketh sore, and
bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole.

ll deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall
no evil tou5:20 In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the
po sword.

5:21 Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neitheou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.

5:22 At destruction and f shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be
afraid of the beasts of the earth.r thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the
beastsield shall be at peace with thee.

5:24 And thou shalt know that thy tshall be in peace; and
thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not  Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine
offsprinrass of the earth.

5:26 Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, lshock of
corn cometh in in his season.

5:27 Lo this, we have searched is; hear it, and know thou it
for thy good.

6:1 But Job answered and Oh that my grief were throughly
weighed, and my calamity laid in the ogether!  6:3 For now
it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: thy words are
swallowed up.

6:4 For the arrows of the Almighty are withpoison whereof
drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themseray
against me.

6:5 Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or lowx over
his fodder?  6:6 Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without ss there any taste in the white of an egg?  6:7 The things that my
soulo touch are as my sorrowful meat.

6:8 Oh that I might have my request God would grant me the
thing that I long for!  6:9 Even that it wouldod to destroy
me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!  6hould I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let
hie; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.

6:11 What is m, that I should hope? and what is mine end,
that I should prolong my l Is my strength the strength of
stones? or is my flesh of brass?  6:13 help in me? and is
wisdom driven quite from me?  6:14 To him that is y
should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the
A

6:15 My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream
of brooks they pass away; 6:16 Which are blackish by reason of the
ice, and wherein the snow is hid: 6:17 What time they wax warm, they
vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.

6:18 The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and
perish.

 troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for
them.

6:20  confounded because they had hoped; they came thither,
and were ashameFor now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid.

6:22  Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your
substance?  6:23 Or, from the enemy’s hand? or, Redeem me
from the hand of the mighty?  6 me, and I will hold my
tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I h

6:25 How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprov ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is
desperat are as wind?  6:27 Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless,
and ye dig a pitfriend.

6:28 Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is eviden if I lie.

6:29 Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, retuy
righteousness is in it.

6:30 Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannote discern perverse
things?  7:1 Is there not an appointed time to man h? are not
his days also like the days of an hireling?  7:2 As a servaly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the
reward of h:3 So am I made to possess months of vanity, and
wearisome nights are to me.

7:4 When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night 
and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day.

7:is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is
broken, and becomee.

7:6 My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle, and are spent w.

7:7 O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see gooe eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes
are up I am not.

7:9 As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he thawn
to the grave shall come up no more.

7:10 He shall return no more t, neither shall his place
know him any more.

7:11 Therefore I will no my mouth; I will speak in the
anguish of my spirit; I will complain ierness of my soul.

7:12 Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a w me?  7:13
When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease mys; 7:14 Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me
through vi5 So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death
rather than my life.
athe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days
are vanity.at is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou
shouldest seart upon him?  7:18 And that thou shouldest
visit him every morning, aevery moment?  7:19 How long wilt
thou not depart from me, nor let me I swallow down my
spittle?  7:20 I have sinned; what shall I do unto tu
preserver of men?  why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so
t burden to myself?  7:21 And why dost thou not pardon my
transgression away my iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the
dust; and thou shalt she morning, but I shall not be.

8:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, 8:2 How long wilt thou
speak these things? and how long shall the wor mouth be like
a strong wind?  8:3 Doth God pervert judgment? or doth ty
pervert justice?  8:4 If thy children have sinned against him, and st them away for their transgression; 8:5 If thou wouldest seek
unto G, and make thy supplication to the Almighty; 8:6 If
thou wert pure and surely now he would awake for thee, and
make the habitation of thy ris prosperous.

8:7 Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end eatly
increase.

8:8 For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and yself
to the search of their fathers: 8:9 (For we are but of yesterday nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:) 8:10 Shall
not thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their
heart?  8:11 Can the rp without mire? can the flag grow
without water?  8:12 Whilst it is yereenness, and not cut
down, it withereth before any other herb.

8:13 paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite’s hope
shall perish:e hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall
be a spider’s web.

8l lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall
hold it fast, l not endure.

8:16 He is green before the sun, and his branch shootet his
garden.

8:17 His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth thetones.

8:18 If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him,have not seen thee.

8:19 Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out arth shall
others grow.

8:20 Behold, God will not cast away a perfecter will he
help the evil doers: 8:21 Till he fill thy mouth with laughhy lips with rejoicing.

8:22 They that hate thee shall be clothed witnd the dwelling
place of the wicked shall come to nought.

9:1 Then Joand said, 9:2 I know it is so of a truth: but
how should man be just w9:3 If he will contend with him, he
cannot answer him one of a thousan is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened
himself a and hath prospered?  9:5 Which removeth the
mountains, and they know  overturneth them in his anger.

9:6 Which shaketh the earth out of he the pillars thereof
tremble.

9:7 Which commandeth the sun, and it ri and sealeth up the
stars.

9:8 Which alone spreadeth out the heavens,upon the waves
of the sea.

9:9 Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleies, and the chambers of
the south.

9:10 Which doeth great things pasting out; yea, and wonders
without number.

9:11 Lo, he goeth by me, anm not: he passeth on also, but I
perceive him not.

9:12 Behold, he ta, who can hinder him? who will say unto
him, What doest thou?  9:13 If not withdraw his anger, the
proud helpers do stoop under him.

9:14 Hss shall I answer him, and choose out my words to
reason with him?  9:ough I were righteous, yet would I not
answer, but I would make supplimy judge.

9:16 If I had called, and he had answered me; yet would I n
that he had hearkened unto my voice.

9:17 For he breaketh me with a d multiplieth my wounds
without cause.

9:18 He will not suffer me to eath, but filleth me with
bitterness.

9:19 If I speak of strength, lorong: and if of judgment, who
shall set me a time to plead?  9:20 If Iself, mine own
mouth shall condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, it shalve me
perverse.

9:21 Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my sould
despise my life.

9:22 This is one thing, therefore I said it, He the perfect
and the wicked.

9:23 If the scourge slay suddenly, he wiat the trial of the
innocent.

9:24 The earth is given into the hand od: he covereth the
faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, and who25 Now
my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no goThey are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that
hasteth to 9:27 If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my
heavinefort myself: 9:28 I am afraid of all my sorrows, I
know that thou wilte innocent.

9:29 If I be wicked, why then labour I in vain?  9:30 If lf
with snow water, and make my hands never so clean; 9:31 Yet shalt tme in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me.

9:32 For he is  as I am, that I should answer him, and we
should come together in jud3 Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, that might lay his hand
upo

9:34 Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrifyhen would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with
me.

10:1 Meary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon
myself; I will speak irness of my soul.

10:2 I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew mthou
contendest with me.

10:3 Is it good unto thee that thou shouldesthat thou
shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon thf the wicked?  10:4 Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man
seet thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man’s
days, 10:6 Thatrest after mine iniquity, and searchest
after my sin?  10:7 Thou knowem not wicked; and there is
none that can deliver out of thine hand.

1hands have made me and fashioned me together round about;
yet thou dose.

10:9 Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; thou bring me into dust again?  10:10 Hast thou not poured me out
as urdled me like cheese?  10:11 Thou hast clothed me with
skin and flesh fenced me with bones and sinews.

10:12 Thou hast granted me life andd thy visitation hath
preserved my spirit.

10:13 And these things hasin thine heart: I know that this
is with thee.

10:14 If I sin, then tt me, and thou wilt not acquit me from
mine iniquity.

10:15 If I be wunto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I
not lift up my head. I am fusion; therefore see thou mine
affliction; 10:16 For it increaseth. Thme as a fierce lion:
and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon mehou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine
indignatio changes and war are against me.

10:18 Wherefore then hast thou brough out of the womb? Oh
that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had se19 I should
have been as though I had not been; I should have been carthe womb to the grave.

10:20 Are not my days few? cease then, and letthat I may
take comfort a little, 10:21 Before I go whence I shall notven to the land of darkness and the shadow of death; 10:22 A land of
d darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any
order, and wight is as darkness.

11:1 Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and sahould not
the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of be
justified?  11:3 Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and whockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?  11:4 For thou hast
said, My d pure, and I am clean in thine eyes.

11:5 But oh that God would speakn his lips against thee; 11:6
And that he would shew thee the secrets , that they are
double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacte less
than thine iniquity deserveth.

11:7 Canst thou by searching fi? canst thou find out the
Almighty unto perfection?  11:8 It is as hign; what canst
thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?  11:9 Tsure
thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.

11:1t off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can
hinder him?  11:1oweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also;
will he not then consider itor vain men would be wise,
though man be born like a wild ass’s coltf thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward
him; 11quity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not
wickedness dwell ernacles.

11:15 For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yealt be stedfast, and shalt not fear: 11:16 Because thou shalt forget
tand remember it as waters that pass away: 11:17 And thine
age shall behan the noonday: thou shalt shine forth, thou
shalt be as the morning. thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt
dig aboud thou shalt take thy rest in safety.

11:19 Also thou shalt lie down,hall make thee afraid; yea,
many shall make suit unto thee.

11:20 Butof the wicked shall fail, and they shall not
escape, and their hope shthe giving up of the ghost.

12:1 And Job answered and said, 12:2 No de are the people,
and wisdom shall die with you.

12:3 But I have undes well as you; I am not inferior to
you: yea, who knoweth not such thiese?  12:4 I am as one
mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, nswereth him:
the just upright man is laughed to scorn.

12:5 He that o slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in
the thought of him that e.

12:6 The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke Gode; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.

12:7 But ask now the beasey shall teach thee; and the fowls
of the air, and they shall tell the speak to the earth, and
it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sedeclare unto
thee.

12:9 Who knoweth not in all these that the hand ofath
wrought this?  12:10 In whose hand is the soul of every living thie breath of all mankind.

12:11 Doth not the ear try words? and the mois meat?  12:12
With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days unde
12:13 With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and
understand Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he
shutteth und there can be no opening.

12:15 Behold, he withholdeth the waters, ry up: also he
sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.

12:16 W strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver
are his.

12:17 Heunsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges
fools.

12:18 He loosethof kings, and girdeth their loins with a
girdle.

12:19 He leadeth pripoiled, and overthroweth the mighty.

12:20 He removeth away the speecusty, and taketh away the
understanding of the aged.

12:21 He pourethupon princes, and weakeneth the strength of
the mighty.

12:22 He discp things out of darkness, and bringeth out to
light the shadow of deat He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the
natiraiteneth them again.

12:24 He taketh away the heart of the chief of e of the
earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there.

12:25 They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to
ske a drunken man.

13:1 Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath
understood it.

13:2 What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not nto
you.

13:3 Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to r
God.

13:4 But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no va5 O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your
wi6 Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.

13:peak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?
13:8 Will ye acce? will ye contend for God?  13:9 Is it
good that he should search you ut? or as one man mocketh another, do
ye so mock him?  13:10 He will sove you, if ye do secretly
accept persons.

13:11 Shall not his excelle you afraid? and his dread fall
upon you?  13:12 Your remembrances aro ashes, your bodies to
bodies of clay.

13:13 Hold your peace, let meat I may speak, and let come on
me what will.

13:14 Wherefore do I ta in my teeth, and put my life in
mine hand?  13:15 Though he slay me, rust in him: but I
will maintain mine own ways before him.

13:16 He ae my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come
before him.

13:17 Heay my speech, and my declaration with your ears.

13:18 Behold now, I hd my cause; I know that I shall be
justified.

13:19 Who is he that with me? for now, if I hold my tongue,
I shall give up the ghost.

13:20ot two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from
thee.

13:21 Wne hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me
afraid.

13:22 Then, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer
thou me.

13:23 How me iniquities and sins? make me to know my
transgression and my sin.

1re hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy?
13:25 Wilt thleaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue
the dry stubble?  13:26 Fitest bitter things against me, and
makest me to possess the iniquitieth.

13:27 Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrow my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.

13:28 And tten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth
eaten.

14:1 Man thatf a woman is of few days and full of trouble.

14:2 He cometh forth li, and is cut down: he fleeth also as
a shadow, and continueth not.

14 thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me
into judgment ?  14:4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an
unclean? not one.

14:5 ays are determined, the number of his months are with
thee, thou hast his bounds that he cannot pass; 14:6 Turn
from him, that he may rest, all accomplish, as an hireling,
his day.

14:7 For there is hope of a t be cut down, that it will
sprout again, and that the tender branch tl not cease.

14:8 Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and thereof die in the ground; 14:9 Yet through the scent of water it will
ing forth boughs like a plant.

14:10 But man dieth, and wasteth away:giveth up the ghost,
and where is he?  14:11 As the waters fail from td the flood
decayeth and drieth up: 14:12 So man lieth down, and risetl
the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of
t.

14:13 O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldestp me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me
a and remember me!  14:14 If a man die, shall he live again?
all the dayppointed time will I wait, till my change come.

14:15 Thou shalt calll answer thee: thou wilt have a desire
to the work of thine hands.

14thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my
sin?  14:17 My trn is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up
mine iniquity.

14:18 And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought, and the rock
is removed out of his place.

14:19 The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which
grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of
man.

14:20 Thou prevailest for ever against him, and asseth: thou
changest his countenance, and sendest him away.

14:21 Hime to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are
brought low, but he  it not of them.

14:22 But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and hihin him
shall mourn.

15:1 Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and saihould a wise
man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the eas15:3
Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewido no good?  15:4 Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest
prayer b

15:5 For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the
toe crafty.

15:6 Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine
testify against thee.

15:7 Art thou the first man that was born? or made before
the hills?  15:8 Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dostrain wisdom to thyself?  15:9 What knowest thou, that we know not?
wndest thou, which is not in us?  15:10 With us are both
the grayheadedery aged men, much elder than thy father.

15:11 Are the consolations all with thee? is there any secret
thing with thee?  15:12 Why doth thcarry thee away? and what
do thy eyes wink at, 15:13 That thou turnestt against God,
and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?  15:14 Whathat
he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he shouleous?  15:15 Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the
heave clean in his sight.

15:16 How much more abominable and filthy is maninketh
iniquity like water?  15:17 I will shew thee, hear me; and thathave seen I will declare; 15:18 Which wise men have told from their
fa have not hid it: 15:19 Unto whom alone the earth was
given, and no stsed among them.

15:20 The wicked man travaileth with pain all his daye number
of years is hidden to the oppressor.

15:21 A dreadful sound ears: in prosperity the destroyer
shall come upon him.

15:22 He belieat he shall return out of darkness, and he is
waited for of the sword.wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth
that the dess is ready at his hand.

15:24 Trouble and anguish shall make him af shall prevail
against him, as a king ready to the battle.

15:25 For cheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth
himself against the 

15:26 He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses oers: 15:27 Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and
maketh collops of fat on his flanks.

15:28 And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man
inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps.

15:29 He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,
neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.

15:30 He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his
branes, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.

15:31 Let not hideceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall
be his recompence.

15:32 Iaccomplished before his time, and his branch shall
not be green.

15:3hake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast
off his flower a.

15:34 For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fironsume the tabernacles of bribery.

15:35 They conceive mischief, and  vanity, and their belly
prepareth deceit.

16:1 Then Job answered and I have heard many such things:
miserable comforters are ye all.

16:3 words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou
answerest?  16:ould speak as ye do: if your soul were in my
soul’s stead, I could hs against you, and shake mine head
at you.

16:5 But I would strengthemy mouth, and the moving of my
lips should asswage your grief.

16:6 Teak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear,
what am I eased? now he hath made me weary: thou hast made
desolate all my company.

16u hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against
me: and my sing up in me beareth witness to my face.

16:9 He teareth me in his whateth me: he gnasheth upon me
with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth hon me.

16:10 They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitn the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together
agai6:11 God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into
thef the wicked.

16:12 I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he aken
me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his marHis archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins
asunder, and pare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.

16:14 He breaketh me wiupon breach, he runneth upon me like
a giant.

16:15 I have sewed sack my skin, and defiled my horn in the
dust.

16:16 My face is foul withand on my eyelids is the shadow of
death; 16:17 Not for any injustice nds: also my prayer is
pure.

16:18 O earth, cover not thou my blood, cry have no place.

16:19 Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, ard is on
high.

16:20 My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out teod.

16:21 O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadetneighbour!  16:22 When a few years are come, then I shall go the
way wnot return.

17:1 My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the gravere ready
for me.

17:2 Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mintinue in
their provocation?  17:3 Lay down now, put me in a surety wito is he that will strike hands with me?  17:4 For thou hast hid
their  understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them.

17:5 He that spelattery to his friends, even the eyes of his
children shall fail.

17:made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was
as a tabret.
 eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are
as a shadUpright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall
stir up inst the hypocrite.

17:9 The righteous also shall hold on his way, anhath clean
hands shall be stronger and stronger.

17:10 But as for youe return, and come now: for I cannot
find one wise man among you.

17:ays are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts
of my hearThey change the night into day: the light is short because of
darknessf I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the
darkness.have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou
art my d my sister.

17:15 And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shal7:16 They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest
together dust.

18:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 18:2 How longe ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak.

18re are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your
sight?  18:4 He imself in his anger: shall the earth be
forsaken for thee? and shall temoved out of his place?
18:5 Yea, the light of the wicked shall be pu the spark of
his fire shall not shine.

18:6 The light shall be dark ernacle, and his candle shall
be put out with him.

18:7 The steps of h shall be straitened, and his own
counsel shall cast him down.

18:8 cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a
snare.

18:9 Th take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail
against him.

18:1e is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in
the way.

18:11all make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him
to his feet.

1strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be
ready at his 3 It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of
deatvour his strength.

18:14 His confidence shall be rooted out of his taand it
shall bring him to the king of terrors.

18:15 It shall dwell irnacle, because it is none of his:
brimstone shall be scattered upon hon.

18:16 His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his brt off.

18:17 His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shalname in the street.

18:18 He shall be driven from light into darknessd out of
the world.

18:19 He shall neither have son nor nephew among e, nor any
remaining in his dwellings.

18:20 They that come after himastonied at his day, as they
that went before were affrighted.

18:21 h are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the
place of him that k God.

19:1 Then Job answered and said, 19:2 How long will ye vex my sak me in pieces with words?  19:3 These ten times have ye
reproached mnot ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to
me.

19:4 And be it ind have erred, mine error remaineth with
myself.

19:5 If indeed ye willurselves against me, and plead
against me my reproach: 19:6 Know now tth overthrown me, and
hath compassed me with his net.

19:7 Behold, I wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but
there is no judgment.

19:fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set
darkness in my pa He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my
head.

1h destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope
hath he rem tree.

19:11 He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he countehim as one of his enemies.

19:12 His troops come together, and raise ay against me, and
encamp round about my tabernacle.

19:13 He hath puren far from me, and mine acquaintance are
verily estranged from me.

nsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten
me.

19:15 dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a
stranger: I am an aleir sight.

19:16 I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I int
with my mouth.

19:17 My breath is strange to my wife, though I intree
children’s sake of mine own body.

19:18 Yea, young children despiarose, and they spake against
me.

19:19 All my inward friends abhorred they whom I loved are
turned against me.

19:20 My bone cleaveth to nd to my flesh, and I am escaped
with the skin of my teeth.

19:21 Havon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the
hand of God hath to
19:22 Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my
fl23 Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were
printed in a b That they were graven with an iron pen and
lead in the rock for ever!r I know that my redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latte the earth: 19:26 And
though after my skin worms destroy this body, yeesh shall I
see God: 19:27 Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes old, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.

19:28 Bud say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the
matter is found in9 Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath
bringeth the punishments of thehat ye may know there is a
judgment.

20:1 Then answered Zophar the Naand said, 20:2 Therefore do
my thoughts cause me to answer, and for thaste.

20:3 I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of mding causeth me to answer.

20:4 Knowest thou not this of old, since mced upon earth,
20:5 That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and tthe
hypocrite but for a moment?  20:6 Though his excellency mount up tens, and his head reach unto the clouds; 20:7 Yet he shall
perish for his own dung: they which have seen him shall say,
Where is he?  20:8 Hly away as a dream, and shall not be
found: yea, he shall be chased awision of the night.

20:9 The eye also which saw him shall see him no ther shall
his place any more behold him.

20:10 His children shall sese the poor, and his hands shall
restore their goods.

20:11 His bonesof the sin of his youth, which shall lie down
with him in the dust.

2 wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under
his tongue;ough he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it
still within his mouYet his meat in his bowels is turned, it
is the gall of asps within hiHe hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again:
God sst them out of his belly.

20:16 He shall suck the poison of asps: thes tongue shall slay
him.

20:17 He shall not see the rivers, the floodrooks of honey and
butter.

20:18 That which he laboured for shall he nd shall not
swallow it down: according to his substance shall the rese,
and he shall not rejoice therein.

20:19 Because he hath oppressed orsaken the poor; because he
hath violently taken away an house which not; 20:20 Surely
he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall nf that
which he desired.

20:21 There shall none of his meat be left; shall no man
look for his goods.

20:22 In the fulness of his sufficiel be in straits: every
hand of the wicked shall come upon him.

20:23  about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of
his wrath upon hil rain it upon him while he is eating.

20:24 He shall flee from the i, and the bow of steel shall
strike him through.

20:25 It is drawn, aout of the body; yea, the glittering
sword cometh out of his gall: terpon him.

20:26 All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fireshall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his
tabern27 The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise
up a.

20:28 The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall fin the day of his wrath.

20:29 This is the portion of a wicked man fr the heritage
appointed unto him by God.

21:1 But Job answered and saear diligently my speech, and
let this be your consolations.

21:3 Suf I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock
on.

21:4 As for me, plaint to man? and if it were so, why should
not my spirit be troubledark me, and be astonished, and lay
your hand upon your mouth.

21:6 Ev remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my
flesh.

21:7 Wh the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in
power?  21:8 Their seished in their sight with them, and
their offspring before their eyes.Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon
them.
eir bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and
casteth no.

21:11 They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their
chice.

21:12 They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound ofan.

21:13 They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to

21:14 Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire notledge of thy ways.

21:15 What is the Almighty, that we should serve hwhat profit
should we have, if we pray unto him?  21:16 Lo, their goodn
their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

21:17 How oftndle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh
their destruction upon distributeth sorrows in his anger.

21:18 They are as stubble before tnd as chaff that the storm
carrieth away.

21:19 God layeth up his inihis children: he rewardeth him,
and he shall know it.

21:20 His eyes his destruction, and he shall drink of the
wrath of the Almighty.

21:t pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the
number of his montoff in the midst?  21:22 Shall any teach
God knowledge? seeing he judg that are high.

21:23 One dieth in his full strength, being wholly atuiet.

21:24 His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistenedrow.

21:25 And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and neverth pleasure.

21:26 They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worover
them.

21:27 Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which lly imagine against me.

21:28 For ye say, Where is the house of the p where are the
dwelling places of the wicked?  21:29 Have ye not askedgo
by the way? and do ye not know their tokens, 21:30 That the wicked  to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the
day of 1:31 Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him
whh done?  21:32 Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and
shall remain b.

21:33 The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every mraw after him, as there are innumerable before him.

21:34 How then coe in vain, seeing in your answers there
remaineth falsehood?  22:1 Thethe Temanite answered and
said, 22:2 Can a man be profitable unto God,at is wise may be
profitable unto himself?  22:3 Is it any pleasure tohty,
that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him, that thou makest trfect?  22:4 Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he
enter witho judgment?  22:5 Is not thy wickedness great? and
thine iniquities in2:6 For thou hast taken a pledge from thy
brother for nought, and striaked of their clothing.

22:7 Thou hast not given water to the weary tand thou hast
withholden bread from the hungry.

22:8 But as for the mhe had the earth; and the honourable
man dwelt in it.

22:9 Thou hast s away empty, and the arms of the fatherless
have been broken.

22:10  snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth
thee; 22:11 Orat thou canst not see; and abundance of
waters cover thee.

22:12 Is nn the height of heaven? and behold the height of the
stars, how high they are!  22:13 And thou sayest, How doth God know?
can he judge through the dark cloud?  22:14 Thick clouds are a
covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of
heaven.

22:15 Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden?
22:16 Which were cut own out of time, whose foundation was overflown
with a flood: 22:17 Whd unto God, Depart from us: and what can
the Almighty do for them?  22 filled their houses with good
things: but the counsel of the wicked im me.

22:19 The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugscorn.

22:20 Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant o fire consumeth.

22:21 Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peacegood
shall come unto thee.

22:22 Receive, I pray thee, the law from hand lay up his
words in thine heart.

22:23 If thou return to the Almiu shalt be built up, thou
shalt put away iniquity far from thy taberna24 Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as
the she brooks.

22:25 Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou sha
plenty of silver.

22:26 For then shalt thou have thy delight in the d shalt
lift up thy face unto God.

22:27 Thou shalt make thy prayer u, and he shall hear thee, and
thou shalt pay thy vows.

22:28 Thou shacree a thing, and it shall be established unto
thee: and the light shaon thy ways.

22:29 When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, Thereg
up; and he shall save the humble person.

22:30 He shall deliver the the innocent: and it is delivered
by the pureness of thine hands.

23b answered and said, 23:2 Even to day is my complaint
bitter: my stroker than my groaning.

23:3 Oh that I knew where I might find him! thatcome even to
his seat!  23:4 I would order my cause before him, and fih
with arguments.

23:5 I would know the words which he would answer merstand
what he would say unto me.

23:6 Will he plead against me with power? No; but he would
put strength in me.

23:7 There the righteousspute with him; so should I be
delivered for ever from my judge.

23:8 go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I
cannot perceive  On the left hand, where he doth work, but I
cannot behold him: he hid on the right hand, that I cannot
see him: 23:10 But he knoweth the watake: when he hath tried
me, I shall come forth as gold.

23:11 My foos steps, his way have I kept, and not
declined.

23:12 Neither have I  from the commandment of his lips; I
have esteemed the words of his mohan my necessary food.

23:13 But he is in one mind, and who can turn what his soul
desireth, even that he doeth.

23:14 For he performeth tthat is appointed for me: and many
such things are with him.

23:15 Th I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am
afraid of him.

23: maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:
23:17 Because I t off before the darkness, neither hath he
covered the darkness from m24:1 Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that
ot see his days?  24:2 Some remove the landmarks; they
violently take s, and feed thereof.

24:3 They drive away the ass of the fatherless, the widow’s
ox for a pledge.

24:4 They turn the needy out of the war of the earth hide
themselves together.

24:5 Behold, as wild asses iert, go they forth to their work;
rising betimes for a prey: the wildedeth food for them and
for their children.

24:6 They reap every one h the field: and they gather the
vintage of the wicked.

24:7 They caused to lodge without clothing, that they have no
covering in the cold.
 are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the
rock for w shelter.

24:9 They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a he poor.

24:10 They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they the sheaf from the hungry; 24:11 Which make oil within their walls,
anheir winepresses, and suffer thirst.

24:12 Men groan from out of the the soul of the wounded
crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them.
ey are of those that rebel against the light; they know not
the ways tor abide in the paths thereof.

24:14 The murderer rising with the lig the poor and needy,
and in the night is as a thief.

24:15 The eye aladulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying,
No eye shall see me: and dis face.

24:16 In the dark they dig through houses, which they had maemselves in the daytime: they know not the light.

24:17 For the morniem even as the shadow of death: if one
know them, they are in the terr shadow of death.

24:18 He is swift as the waters; their portion is ce earth:
he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.

24:19 Drought andme the snow waters: so doth the grave
those which have sinned.

24:20 hall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him;
he shall be no mored; and wickedness shall be broken as a
tree.

24:21 He evil entreateren that beareth not: and doeth not
good to the widow.

24:22 He drawehe mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no
man is sure of life.

2gh it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet
his eyes aheir ways.

24:24 They are exalted for a little while, but are gone an
low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the
ts of corn.

24:25 And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, anpeech nothing worth?  25:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and
said,inion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high
places.

25:3 any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his
light arise?  25en can man be justified with God? or how can
he be clean that is born n?  25:5 Behold even to the moon,
and it shineth not; yea, the stars aure in his sight.

25:6 How much less man, that is a worm? and the sonwhich is a
worm?  26:1 But Job answered and said, 26:2 How hast thou h
that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength?hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast
thou plentilared the thing as it is?  26:4 To whom hast thou
uttered words? and wt came from thee?  26:5 Dead things are
formed from under the waters, abitants thereof.

26:6 Hell is naked before him, and destruction hathng.

26:7 He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth upon nothing.

26:8 He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; anud is
not rent under them.

26:9 He holdeth back the face of his throneadeth his cloud
upon it.

26:10 He hath compassed the waters with boul the day and
night come to an end.

26:11 The pillars of heaven tremb astonished at his reproof.

26:12 He divideth the sea with his power,is understanding he
smiteth through the proud.

26:13 By his spirit heished the heavens; his hand hath
formed the crooked serpent.

26:14 Loe parts of his ways: but how little a portion is
heard of him? but thef his power who can understand?  27:1
Moreover Job continued his parabaid, 27:2 As God liveth, who
hath taken away my judgment; and the Almi hath vexed my soul;
27:3 All the while my breath is in me, and the spd is in my
nostrils; 27:4 My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my ter
deceit.

27:5 God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I wimove mine integrity from me.

27:6 My righteousness I hold fast, and wet it go: my heart
shall not reproach me so long as I live.

27:7 Let y be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me
as the unrighteouor what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained,
when God y his soul?  27:9 Will God hear his cry when
trouble cometh upon him? l he delight himself in the
Almighty? will he always call upon God?  2l teach you by the
hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will Il.

27:12 Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thuser vain?  27:13 This is the portion of a wicked man with God,
and the of oppressors, which they shall receive of the
Almighty.

27:14 If hise multiplied, it is for the sword: and his
offspring shall not be sati bread.

27:15 Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and  shall not weep.

27:16 Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepnt as the
clay; 27:17 He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on,nnocent shall divide the silver.

27:18 He buildeth his house as a mota booth that the keeper
maketh.

27:19 The rich man shall lie down, bul not be gathered: he
openeth his eyes, and he is not.

27:20 Terrors  on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away
in the night.

27:21 Thnd carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a
storm hurleth him outace.

27:22 For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain f his hand.

27:23 Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss h his
place.

28:1 Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place fhere
they fine it.

28:2 Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is  of the
stone.

28:3 He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out ion:
the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death.

28:4 The flood ut from the inhabitant; even the waters
forgotten of the foot: they ar, they are gone away from men.

28:5 As for the earth, out of it cometd under it is turned
up as it were fire.

28:6 The stones of it are th sapphires: and it hath dust of
gold.

28:7 There is a path which no fth, and which the vulture’s
eye hath not seen: 28:8 The lion’s whenot trodden it, nor the
fierce lion passed by it.

28:9 He putteth ford upon the rock; he overturneth the
mountains by the roots.

28:10 He s among the rocks; and his eye seeth every
precious thing.

28:11 He b floods from overflowing; and the thing that is
hid bringeth he forth 

28:12 But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of
undg?  28:13 Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it
found in th the living.

28:14 The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saitot
with me.

28:15 It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver 
for the price thereof.

28:16 It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophe precious
onyx, or the sapphire.

28:17 The gold and the crystal canit: and the exchange of it
shall not be for jewels of fine gold.

28:1on shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price
of wisdom is ab.

28:19 The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it beth pure gold.

28:20 Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the placestanding?  28:21 Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living,
and kepom the fowls of the air.

28:22 Destruction and death say, We have heame thereof with
our ears.

28:23 God understandeth the way thereof, anth the place
thereof.

28:24 For he looketh to the ends of the earth, under the
whole heaven; 28:25 To make the weight for the winds; and hethe waters by measure.

28:26 When he made a decree for the rain, and the lightning
of the thunder: 28:27 Then did he see it, and declare itared
it, yea, and searched it out.

28:28 And unto man he said, Behold of the LORD, that is
wisdom; and to depart from evil is understandingoreover Job continued his parable, and said, 29:2 Oh that I were
as int, as in the days when God preserved me; 29:3 When his
candle shined uad, and when by his light I walked through
darkness; 29:4 As I was in f my youth, when the secret of
God was upon my tabernacle; 29:5 When thty was yet with me,
when my children were about me; 29:6 When I washe with
butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil; 29:7 When I weo the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street!
29oung men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and
stood up. princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their
mouth.

29:10s held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the
roof of their moutWhen the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw
me, itess to me: 29:12 Because I delivered the poor that
cried, and the fathd him that had none to help him.

29:13 The blessing of him that was rish came upon me: and I
caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.

2 on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a
robe and a 29:15 I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame.

29:16 I war to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I
searched out.

29:17 A the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of
his teeth.

29:1I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my
days as the sa My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night
upon 

29:20 My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand.

 me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my
counsel.

29:22 Ards they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon
them.

29:23 And d for me as for the rain; and they opened their
mouth wide as for the n.

29:24 If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light ofenance they cast not down.

29:25 I chose out their way, and sat chieft as a king in the
army, as one that comforteth the mourners.

30:1 Bu that are younger than I have me in derision, whose
fathers I would haned to have set with the dogs of my flock.

30:2 Yea, whereto might thh of their hands profit me, in whom
old age was perished?  30:3 For waine they were solitary;
fleeing into the wilderness in former time deswaste.

30:4 Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for t.

30:5 They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them  thief;) 30:6 To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves
of the ein the rocks.

30:7 Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles th
gathered together.

30:8 They were children of fools, yea, children on: they were
viler than the earth.

30:9 And now am I their song, yea,word.

30:10 They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to sp.

30:11 Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have ae the bridle before me.

30:12 Upon my right hand rise the youth; theyy my feet, and
they raise up against me the ways of their destruction.ey mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no
helper.

30me upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the
desolation they rollves upon me.

30:15 Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul a: and
my welfare passeth away as a cloud.

30:16 And now my soul is poupon me; the days of affliction
have taken hold upon me.

30:17 My bonrced in me in the night season: and my sinews
take no rest.

30:18 By force of my disease is my garment changed: it
bindeth me about as the y coat.

30:19 He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like duses.

30:20 I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, andrdest me not.

30:21 Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong handest
thyself against me.

30:22 Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou cao ride upon it,
and dissolvest my substance.

30:23 For I know that thng me to death, and to the house
appointed for all living.

30:24 Howbll not stretch out his hand to the grave, though
they cry in his destr30:25 Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul
griee poor?  30:26 When I looked for good, then evil came
unto me: and whed for light, there came darkness.

30:27 My bowels boiled, and rested days of affliction
prevented me.

30:28 I went mourning without the su up, and I cried in the
congregation.

30:29 I am a brother to dragonsmpanion to owls.

30:30 My skin is black upon me, and my bones are bureat.

30:31 My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the them that weep.

31:1 I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then shoulupon a
maid?  31:2 For what portion of God is there from above? and whance of the Almighty from on high?  31:3 Is not destruction to
the wic strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?  31:4
Doth not he see and count all my steps?  31:5 If I have
walked with vanity, or if my fhasted to deceit; 31:6 Let me
be weighed in an even balance that God mne integrity.

31:7 If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine he
after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands; 31:8 Thesow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out.

31:9 Irt have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid
wait at my neighbo31:10 Then let my wife grind unto
another, and let others bow down upo11 For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be
punishedudges.

31:12 For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and woul all mine increase.

31:13 If I did despise the cause of my manservantmaidservant, when they contended with me; 31:14 What then shall I do
wseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?
31:15 Did not ade me in the womb make him? and did not one
fashion us in the womb?  I have withheld the poor from their
desire, or have caused the eyes ofto fail; 31:17 Or have
eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherles not eaten
thereof; 31:18 (For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a
father, and I have guided her from my mother’s womb;) 31:19 If I have
seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering;
31:20 If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with
the fleece of my sheep; 31:21 If I have lifted up my handnst the
fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate: 31:22 Then let min from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone.

31:23 tion from God was a terror to me, and by reason of
his highness I coulre.

31:24 If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold,my confidence; 31:25 If I rejoice because my wealth was great, and
bec hand had gotten much; 31:26 If I beheld the sun when it
shined, or thking in brightness; 31:27 And my heart hath
been secretly enticed, or ath kissed my hand: 31:28 This
also were an iniquity to be punished by: for I should have
denied the God that is above.

31:29 If I rejoice truction of him that hated me, or lifted
up myself when evil found him suffered my mouth
to sin by wishing a curse to his soul.

31:31 If thof my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his
flesh!  we cannot be 

31:32 The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doorraveller.

31:33 If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding min
in my bosom: 31:34 Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt
 terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the
door?  31:35ne would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the
Almighty would answerhat mine adversary had written a book.

31:36 Surely I would take it uulder, and bind it as a crown
to me.

31:37 I would declare unto him t of my steps; as a prince
would I go near unto him.

31:38 If my land st me, or that the furrows likewise thereof
complain; 31:39 If I have ruits thereof without money, or
have caused the owners thereof to losee: 31:40 Let thistles
grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of bar words of Job are ended.

32:1 So these three men ceased to answer Jobe he was righteous
in his own eyes.

32:2 Then was kindled the wrath oe son of Barachel the
Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was hkindled,
because he justified himself rather than God.

32:3 Also agairee friends was his wrath kindled, because
they had found no answer, a condemned Job.

32:4 Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, becaus elder
than he.

32:5 When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mese
three men, then his wrath was kindled.

32:6 And Elihu the son of e Buzite answered and said, I am
young, and ye are very old; whereforeid, and durst not shew
you mine opinion.

32:7 I said, Days should speltitude of years should teach
wisdom.

32:8 But there is a spirit in m inspiration of the Almighty
giveth them understanding.

32:9 Great mealways wise: neither do the aged understand
judgment.

32:10 Thereforeearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.

32:11 Behold, I waited frds; I gave ear to your reasons,
whilst ye searched out what to say.

 I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you
that convincethat answered his words: 32:13 Lest ye should
say, We have found out wthrusteth him down, not man.

32:14 Now he hath not directed his words: neither will I
answer him with your speeches.

32:15 They were amazeswered no more: they left off speaking.

32:16 When I had waited, (fore not, but stood still, and
answered no more;) 32:17 I said, I will an my part, I also
will shew mine opinion.

32:18 For I am full of matteirit within me constraineth me.

32:19 Behold, my belly is as wine whivent; it is ready to
burst like new bottles.

32:20 I will speak, thatrefreshed: I will open my lips and
answer.

32:21 Let me not, I pray yt any man’s person, neither let me
give flattering titles unto man.
 I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker
would soonway.

33:1 Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken  words.

33:2 Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spokeuth.

33:3 My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my liutter knowledge clearly.

33:4 The spirit of God hath made me, and thef the Almighty
hath given me life.

33:5 If thou canst answer me, set in order before me, stand
up.

33:6 Behold, I am according to thy wishs stead: I also am
formed out of the clay.

33:7 Behold, my terror shke thee afraid, neither shall my
hand be heavy upon thee.

33:8 Surely spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the
voice of thy words, sayiI am clean without transgression, I
am innocent; neither is there iniq.

33:10 Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for h 33:11 He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my
paths.

33: in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God
is greater th3:13 Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of
anatters.

33:14 For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it:15 In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth
uponumberings upon the bed; 33:16 Then he openeth the ears
of men, and sea instruction, 33:17 That he may withdraw man
from his purpose, and hidan.

33:18 He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from
pee sword.

33:19 He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the m
of his bones with strong pain: 33:20 So that his life abhorreth bread soul dainty meat.

33:21 His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot bd his
bones that were not seen stick out.

33:22 Yea, his soul draweth the grave, and his life to the
destroyers.

33:23 If there be a messehim, an interpreter, one among a
thousand, to shew unto man his uprigh:24 Then he is gracious
unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going doit: I have
found a ransom.

33:25 His flesh shall be fresher than a che shall return to
the days of his youth: 33:26 He shall pray unto God,ll be
favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he r unto man his righteousness.

33:27 He looketh upon men, and if any ssinned, and
perverted that which was right, and it profited me not; 33l
deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the3:29 Lo, all these things worketh God oftentimes with man, 33:30 To
brs soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of
the living.

 well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will
speak.

33:3 hast anything to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to
justify thee.f not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee
wisdom.thermore Elihu answered and said, 34:2 Hear my words, O ye
wise men; a unto me, ye that have knowledge.

34:3 For the ear trieth words, as tasteth meat.

34:4 Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourat is
good.

34:5 For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath takejudgment.

34:6 Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable wansgression.

34:7 What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like4:8
Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh wmen.

34:9 For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he shouldimself with God.

34:10 Therefore hearken unto me ye men of understandbe it
from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, tuld commit iniquity.

34:11 For the work of a man shall he render untoause every
man to find according to his ways.

34:12 Yea, surely God w wickedly, neither will the Almighty
pervert judgment.

34:13 Who hatha charge over the earth? or who hath disposed
the whole world?  34:14 his heart upon man, if he gather
unto himself his spirit and his breatll flesh shall perish
together, and man shall turn again unto dust.

3 thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice
of my words.all even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn
him that i?  34:18 Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art
wicked? and to princes, dly?  34:19 How much less to him
that accepteth not the persons of pri regardeth the rich more
than the poor? for they all are the work of h34:20 In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at
and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without
hand.

34:21es are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his
goings.

34:22 Therekness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of
iniquity may hide the
34:23 For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should
enudgment with God.

34:24 He shall break in pieces mighty men without nset
others in their stead.

34:25 Therefore he knoweth their works, anurneth them in the
night, so that they are destroyed.

34:26 He strikes wicked men in the open sight of others;
34:27 Because they turned bam, and would not consider any of
his ways: 34:28 So that they cause thhe poor to come unto
him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.

34e giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he
hideth his then can behold him? whether it be done against a
nation, or against a 34:30 That the hypocrite reign not,
lest the people be ensnared.

34:t is meet to be said unto God, I have borne
chastisement, I will not omore: 34:32 That which I see not
teach thou me: if I have done iniquit do no more.

34:33 Should it be according to thy mind? he will recomphether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore
speakou knowest.

34:34 Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise ma

34:35 Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without


34:36 My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of hisfor wicked men.

34:37 For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeds
among us, and multiplieth his words against God.

35:1 Elihu spake and said, 35:2 Thinkest thou this to be
right, that thou saidst, My ris is more than God’s?  35:3
For thou saidst, What advantage will it ee? and, What profit
shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?  35:4swer thee,
and thy companions with thee.

35:5 Look unto the heavens, nd behold the clouds which are
higher than thou.

35:6 If thou sinnestst thou against him? or if thy
transgressions be multiplied, what doeso him?  35:7 If thou
be righteous, what givest thou him? or what recei thine
hand?  35:8 Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy
s may profit the son of man.

35:9 By reason of the multitude of oppreey make the oppressed
to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the35:10 But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the
n1 Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and
maketh us wise fowls of heaven?  35:12 There they cry, but
none giveth answer, beca pride of evil men.

35:13 Surely God will not hear vanity, neither wiighty
regard it.

35:14 Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yt is
before him; therefore trust thou in him.

35:15 But now, because  so, he hath visited in his anger; yet
he knoweth it not in great extr6 Therefore doth Job open
his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words withdge.

36:1 Elihu also proceeded, and said, 36:2 Suffer me a little, anshew thee that I have yet to speak on God’s behalf.

36:3 I will fetedge from afar, and will ascribe
righteousness to my Maker.

36:4 For ords shall not be false: he that is perfect in
knowledge is with thee.old, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in
strength an

36:6 He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to t6:7 He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings
arethe throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they
are exaltedd if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of
affliction; 3e sheweth them their work, and their
transgressions that they have exc:10 He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that
they om iniquity.

36:11 If they obey and serve him, they shall spend theirrosperity, and their years in pleasures.

36:12 But if they obey not, l perish by the sword, and they
shall die without knowledge.

36:13 Bucrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he
bindeth them.

36:ie in youth, and their life is among the unclean.

36:15 He deliverethin his affliction, and openeth their ears
in oppression.

36:16 Even se have removed thee out of the strait into a
broad place, where there itness; and that which should be
set on thy table should be full of fa:17 But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and
j hold on thee.

36:18 Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee his
stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.

36:19 Will he e riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of
strength.

36:20 Desire nht, when people are cut off in their place.

36:21 Take heed, regard n for this hast thou chosen rather
than affliction.

36:22 Behold, God y his power: who teacheth like him?  36:23
Who hath enjoined him his wo can say, Thou hast wrought
iniquity?  36:24 Remember that thou magnik, which men
behold.

36:25 Every man may see it; man may behold it af36:26 Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the
numbeears be searched out.

36:27 For he maketh small the drops of water: town rain
according to the vapour thereof: 36:28 Which the clouds do drtil upon man abundantly.

36:29 Also can any understand the spreadingsuds, or the
noise of his tabernacle?  36:30 Behold, he spreadeth his lt, and covereth the bottom of the sea.

36:31 For by them judgeth he t he giveth meat in abundance.

36:32 With clouds he covereth the lightandeth it not to
shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.

36:33 The noeweth concerning it, the cattle also
concerning the vapour.

37:1 At tart trembleth, and is moved out of his place.

37:2 Hear attentively tof his voice, and the sound that goeth
out of his mouth.

37:3 He dirender the whole heaven, and his lightning unto
the ends of the earth.

 it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his
excellency; al not stay them when his voice is heard.

37:5 God thundereth marvellohis voice; great things doeth
he, which we cannot comprehend.

37:6 Fo saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the
small rain,  great rain of his strength.

37:7 He sealeth up the hand of every manl men may know his
work.

37:8 Then the beasts go into dens, and remair places.

37:9 Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out oforth.

37:10 By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of t is straitened.

37:11 Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: hth his
bright cloud: 37:12 And it is turned round about by his counseley may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world
in 

37:13 He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his landercy.

37:14 Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wrks of God.

37:15 Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused t
his cloud to shine?  37:16 Dost thou know the balancings of the
clouddrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?
37:17 How thy garmenrm, when he quieteth the earth by the
south wind?  37:18 Hast thou witad out the sky, which is
strong, and as a molten looking glass?  37:19what we shall
say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason o.

37:20 Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he
swallowed up.

37:21 And now men see not the bright light which is in : but
the wind passeth, and cleanseth them.

37:22 Fair weather comethe north: with God is terrible
majesty.

37:23 Touching the Almighty, wind him out: he is excellent
in power, and in judgment, and in plenty : he will not
afflict.

37:24 Men do therefore fear him: he respectethhat are wise
of heart.

38:1 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whi said, 38:2
Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowleGird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and
answe

38:4 Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?
declau hast understanding.

38:5 Who hath laid the measures thereof, if tho or who hath
stretched the line upon it?  38:6 Whereupon are the foundeof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof; 38:7 When the
mornsang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
38:8 Or who sh sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it
had issued out of the wen I made the cloud the garment
thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlinor it, 38:10 And brake up
for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors, 38:11 And said,
Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud
waves be stayed?  38:12 Hast thou commanded the morning since thy
days; and caused the dayspring to know his place; 38:13 That it might
take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken
out of it?  38:14 It is turned as clay to the seal; and thas
a garment.

38:15 And from the wicked their light is withholden, an arm
shall be broken.

38:16 Hast thou entered into the springs of theast thou
walked in the search of the depth?  38:17 Have the gates of dopened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?
 thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou
knowest it a Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness,
where is thereof, 38:20 That thou shouldest take it to the
bound thereof, and thouldest know the paths to the house
thereof?  38:21 Knowest thou it, ou wast then born? or
because the number of thy days is great?  38:22 ntered into
the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasuresil, 38:23 Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against
tbattle and war?  38:24 By what way is the light parted,
which scatteret wind upon the earth?  38:25 Who hath divided
a watercourse for the og of waters, or a way for the
lightning of thunder; 38:26 To cause it  where no
man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man; 38:27 To
the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud of the tender herspring forth?  38:28 Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten
the dew?  38:29 Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary
frost of heahath gendered it?  38:30 The waters are hid as
with a stone, and the f deep is frozen.

38:31 Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiade the
bands of Orion?  38:32 Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his s canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?  38:33 Knowest thou the
ordiheaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the
earth?  38:34 Canst up thy voice to the clouds, that
abundance of waters may cover thee? st thou send lightnings,
that they may go and say unto thee, Here we a Who hath put
wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understandheart?  38:37 Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay thef heaven, 38:38 When the dust groweth into hardness, and the
clods cleogether?  38:39 Wilt thou hunt the prey for the
lion? or fill the appee young lions, 38:40 When they couch
in their dens, and abide in the c in wait?  38:41 Who
provideth for the raven his food? when his young nto God,
they wander for lack of meat.

39:1 Knowest thou the time whed goats of the rock bring
forth? or canst thou mark when the hinds do :2 Canst thou
number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the they
bring forth?  39:3 They bow themselves, they bring forth their yohey cast out their sorrows.

39:4 Their young ones are in good liking, up with corn; they
go forth, and return not unto them.

39:5 Who haththe wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands
of the wild ass?  39:6use I have made the wilderness, and the
barren land his dwellings.

39neth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the
crying of the39:8 The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth afteren thing.

39:9 Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by
39:10 Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or wilow the valleys after thee?  39:11 Wilt thou trust him, because
his streat? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?  39:12
Wilt thou believe hi will bring home thy seed, and gather it
into thy barn?  39:13 Gavest odly wings unto the peacocks?
or wings and feathers unto the ostrich? hich leaveth her eggs
in the earth, and warmeth them in dust, 39:15 Aneth that the
foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break the She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not
herlabour is in vain without fear; 39:17 Because God hath
deprived her ofneither hath he imparted to her understanding.

39:18 What time she lirself on high, she scorneth the horse
and his rider.

39:19 Hast thou  horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck
with thunder?  39:20 Cansthim afraid as a grasshopper? the
glory of his nostrils is terrible.

3paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth
on to meed men.

39:22 He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turnk from the sword.

39:23 The quiver rattleth against him, the glitterind the
shield.

39:24 He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and ragr
believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet.

39:25 He saith amrumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle
afar off, the thunder of ts, and the shouting.

39:26 Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretgs toward
the south?  39:27 Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, anr
nest on high?  39:28 She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the
e rock, and the strong place.

39:29 From thence she seeketh the prey,yes behold afar off.

39:30 Her young ones also suck up blood: and whein are,
there is she.

40:1 Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said,  he that
contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth him answer it.

40:3 Then Job answered the LORD, and said, 40:4 Behold;
what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth.

40:5 I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will
proceed no fur6 Then answered the LORD unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said,
40:7loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and
declare thou unto me.hou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that
thou mayest s?  40:9 Hast thou an arm like God? or canst
thou thunder with a voice  40:10 Deck thyself now with
majesty and excellency; and array thysely and beauty.

40:11 Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold evet is
proud, and abase him.

40:12 Look on every one that is proud, and low; and tread
down the wicked in their place.

40:13 Hide them in thther; and bind their faces in secret.

40:14 Then will I also confess that thine own right hand can
save thee.

40:15 Behold now behemoth, w with thee; he eateth grass as
an ox.

40:16 Lo now, his strength is is, and his force is in the
navel of his belly.

40:17 He moveth his tacedar: the sinews of his stones are
wrapped together.

40:18 His bonesrong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars
of iron.

40:19 He is thf the ways of God: he that made him can make
his sword to approach unt:20 Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts
ofe field play.

40:21 He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of nd
fens.

40:22 The shady trees cover him with their shadow; the willo
brook compass him about.

40:23 Behold, he drinketh up a river, and h: he trusteth
that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth.

40:24 He takh his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares.

41:1 Canst thou draw oun with an hook? or his tongue with a
cord which thou lettest down?  41thou put an hook into his
nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn?  he make many
supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto t
Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant
f1:5 Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou
bind him for ns?  41:6 Shall the companions make a banquet of
him? shall they part the merchants?  41:7 Canst thou fill
his skin with barbed irons? or hih fish spears?  41:8 Lay
thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do 41:9 Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down
ev sight of him?  41:10 None is so fierce that dare stir him
up: who thee to stand before me?  41:11 Who hath prevented me,
that I should repatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.

41:12 I will not conceal hnor his power, nor his comely
proportion.

41:13 Who can discover the s garment? or who can come to him
with his double bridle?  41:14 Who che doors of his face? his
teeth are terrible round about.

41:15 His shis pride, shut up together as with a close seal.

41:16 One is so near, that no air can come between them.

41:17 They are joined one to any stick together, that they
cannot be sundered.

41:18 By his neesingsoth shine, and his eyes are like the
eyelids of the morning.

41:19 Ououth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out.

41:20 Out of his eth smoke, as out of a seething pot or
caldron.

41:21 His breath kind and a flame goeth out of his mouth.

41:22 In his neck remaineth stresorrow is turned into joy
before him.

41:23 The flakes of his flesh atogether: they are firm in
themselves; they cannot be moved.

41:24 Hi as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the
nether millstone.
n he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of
breakingsfy themselves.

41:26 The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold:r, the
dart, nor the habergeon.

41:27 He esteemeth iron as straw, androtten wood.

41:28 The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are tuim
into stubble.

41:29 Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at t of a
spear.

41:30 Sharp stones are under him: he spreadeth sharp pois
upon the mire.

41:31 He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he makelike a
pot of ointment.

41:32 He maketh a path to shine after him; onink the deep to
be hoary.

41:33 Upon earth there is not his like, whoithout fear.

41:34 He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over aldren
of pride.

42:1 Then Job answered the LORD, and said, 42:2 I know canst
do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from theeo is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I
utterederstood not; things too wonderful for me, which I
knew not.

42:4 Hea and I will speak: I will demand of thee,
and declare thou unto me.

4ave heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye
seeth thWherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.

42:7 And it wt after the LORD had spoken these words unto
Job, the LORD said to Eliemanite, My wrath is kindled
against thee, and against thy two friendsave not spoken of
me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.
efore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go
to my se and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and
my servant Job shalyou: for him will I accept: lest I deal
with you after your folly, in ave not spoken of me the thing
which is right, like my servant Job.

4haz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the
Naamathite wentaccording as the LORD commanded them: the
LORD also accepted Job.

42: LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his
friends: als gave Job twice as much as he had before.

42:11 Then came there unto is brethren, and all his sisters,
and all they that had been of his ac before, and did eat
bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned hiorted him
over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold.

42:12 Solessed the latter end of Job more than his
beginning: for he had fourtnd sheep, and six thousand
camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a he asses.

42:13 He had also seven sons and three daughters.

42:14 Aned the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the
second, Kezia; ame of the third, Kerenhappuch.

42:15 And in all the land were no womeo fair as the daughters
of Job: and their father gave them inheritancer brethren.

42:16 After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, ansons, and his sons’ sons, even four generations.

42:17 So Job died, and full of days.




The Book of Psalms


1:1 Blessed is the man thaot in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners, h in the seat of the
scornful.

1:2 But his delight is in the law of tnd in his law doth he
meditate day and night.

1:3 And he shall be likplanted by the rivers of water, that
bringeth forth his fruit in his s leaf also shall not
wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

1odly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind
driveth away.

ore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners
in the co of the righteous.

1:6 For the LORD knoweth the way of the righteous:way of the
ungodly shall perish.



2:1 Why do the heathen rage, and timagine a vain thing?

2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, and  take counsel
together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, sa Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from
us.
hat sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have
them in de:5 Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his
sorure.

2:6 Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.

2:7 I wilthe decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my
Son; this day haven thee.

2:8 Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine
inand the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.

2:9 Thou shahem with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in
pieces like a potter

2:10 Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of


2:11 Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.

2:12 Kis lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when
his wrath is kindlittle. Blessed are all they that put their
trust in him.



3:1 Lord, ey increased that trouble me! many are they that
rise up against me.

there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in
God.

Selah thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up
of min3:4 I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his
hoelah.

3:5 I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set
themselst me round about.

3:7 Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hasall mine
enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of th Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy
people.

 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged
me in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.

4:2 O ye sons o long will ye turn my glory into shame? how
long will ye love vanity, ter leasing? Selah.

4:3 But know that the LORD hath set apart him thafor
himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him.

4:4 Stand in awn not: commune with your own heart upon your
bed, and be still. Selah. the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the
LORD.

4:6many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou
up the lightntenance upon us.

4:7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than i that
their corn and their wine increased.

4:8 I will both lay me dow and sleep: for thou, LORD, only
makest me dwell in safety.



5:1 Giv words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

5:2 Hearken unto the voice ofy King, and my God: for unto
thee will I pray.

5:3 My voice shalt tho the morning, O LORD; in the morning
will I direct my prayer unto theel look up.

5:4 For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickednes
shall evil dwell with thee.

5:5 The foolish shall not stand in thy s hatest all workers
of iniquity.

5:6 Thou shalt destroy them that spe: the LORD will abhor
the bloody and deceitful man.

5:7 But as for meome into thy house in the multitude of thy
mercy: and in thy fear willtoward thy holy temple.

5:8 Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness bece enemies;
make thy way straight before my face.

5:9 For there is no ss in their mouth; their inward part is
very wickedness; their throat  sepulchre; they flatter with
their tongue.

5:10 Destroy thou them, Ohem fall by their own counsels;
cast them out in the multitude of theissions; for they have
rebelled against thee.

5:11 But let all those teir trust in thee rejoice: let them
ever shout for joy, because thou dhem: let them also that
love thy name be joyful in thee.

5:12 For tholt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou
compass him as with a sh:1 O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy
hoture.

6:2 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; nes are vexed.

6:3 My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how 4 Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies’ sake.in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who
shall give s?

6:6 I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swr my couch with my tears.

6:7 Mine eye is consumed because of grief;  old because of
all mine enemies.

6:8 Depart from me, all ye workers y; for the LORD hath
heard the voice of my weeping.

6:9 The LORD hath supplication; the LORD will receive my
prayer.

6:10 Let all mine enehamed and sore vexed: let them return
and be ashamed suddenly.



7:1  God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them
that persecute ver me:

7:2 Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, we is none to deliver.

7:3 O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my
hands;

7:4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea,
I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)

7:5 Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread
down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.

7:6 Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself becaurage
of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast


7:7 So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for
s therefore return thou on high.

7:8 The LORD shall judge the people:O LORD, according to my
righteousness, and according to mine integrityin me.

7:9 Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but es just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.

7:10 My def God, which saveth the upright in heart.

7:11 God judgeth the righteod is angry with the wicked every
day.

7:12 If he turn not, he will whrd; he hath bent his bow, and
made it ready.

7:13 He hath also preparm the instruments of death; he
ordaineth his arrows against the persec4 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief,
anehood.

7:15 He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditc
he made.

7:16 His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his vling shall come down upon his own pate.

7:17 I will praise the LORD ao his righteousness: and will
sing praise to the name of the LORD most1 O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who
hay glory above the heavens.

8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and sucklingou ordained
strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest stilmy
and the avenger.

8:3 When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy  the moon and
the stars, which thou hast ordained;

8:4 What is man, trt mindful of him? and the son of man,
that thou visitest him?

8:5 Fost made him a little lower than the angels, and hast
crowned him with onour.

8:6 Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hanast put all things under his feet:

8:7 All sheep and oxen, yea, and tf the field;

8:8 The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whasseth through the paths of the seas.

8:9 O LORD our Lord, how excellname in all the earth!


9:1 I will praise thee, O LORD, with my wholeill shew forth
all thy marvellous works.

9:2 I will be glad and rejoi: I will sing praise to thy
name, O thou most High.

9:3 When mine enerned back, they shall fall and perish at
thy presence.

9:4 For thou hined my right and my cause; thou satest in the
throne judging right.

ast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked,
thou hast putr name for ever and ever.

9:6 O thou enemy, destructions are come to l end: and thou
hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with:7 But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne
for

9:8 And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall ministero the people in uprightness.

9:9 The LORD also will be a refuge for ted, a refuge in
times of trouble.

9:10 And they that know thy name wieir trust in thee: for
thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thSing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among
the peoings.

9:12 When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth themtteth not the cry of the humble.

9:13 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; controuble which I suffer of
them that hate me, thou that liftest me up fates of death:

9:14 That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gatesughter
of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.

9:15 The heathen are in the pit that they made: in the net
which they hid is their own foo9:16 The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked
in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.

9:17 The wicked shall into hell, and all the nations that
forget God.

9:18 For the needy shy be forgotten: the expectation of
the poor shall not perish for ever.se, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in
thy sighPut them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to
be blah.



10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyses of trouble?

10:2 The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: l
taken in the devices that they have imagined.

10:3 For the wicked bohis heart’s desire, and blesseth the
covetous, whom the LORD abhorrehe wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek
after G not in all his thoughts.

10:5 His ways are always grievous; thy judgar above out of
his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them. hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall
never be in.

10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his
tischief and vanity.

10:8 He sitteth in the lurking places of the villhe secret
places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily setthe poor.

10:9 He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lie
to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into
h:10 He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by
his .

10:11 He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his
ill never see it.

10:12 Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forhe humble.

10:13 Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said hou wilt not require it.

10:14 Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest  spite, to
requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto art the helper of the fatherless.

10:15 Break thou the arm of the wiche evil man: seek out his
wickedness till thou find none.

10:16 The Lg for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out
of his land.

10:17  hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt
prepare their heart, tuse thine ear to hear:

10:18 To judge the fatherless and the oppressee man of the
earth may no more oppress.



11:1 In the LORD put I my tsay ye to my soul, Flee as a bird
to your mountain?

11:2 For, lo, thed their bow, they make ready their arrow
upon the string, that they mashoot at the upright in heart.

11:3 If the foundations be destroyed, he righteous do?

11:4 The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD’s th heaven:
his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.

11:5 rieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth
violence his s.

11:6 Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and e tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.

11:7 For the rightD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth
behold the upright.



12RD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from
among the chmen.

12:2 They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flatteand with a double heart do they speak.

12:3 The LORD shall cut off alng lips, and the tongue that
speaketh proud things:

12:4 Who have sair tongue will we prevail; our lips are our
own: who is lord over us?

he oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now
will I arthe LORD; I will set him in safety from him that
puffeth at him.

12:6s of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a
furnace of earth, pven times.

12:7 Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve the
generation for ever.

12:8 The wicked walk on every side, when the vie exalted.



13:1 How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how
thou hide thy face from me?

13:2 How long shall I take counsel in mying sorrow in my
heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted ove Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I
sleep of death;

13:4 Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; andt
trouble me rejoice when I am moved.

13:5 But I have trusted in thy eart shall rejoice in thy
salvation.

13:6 I will sing unto the LORD,  hath dealt bountifully with
me.



14:1 The fool hath said in his heais no God. They are
corrupt, they have done abominable works, there isdoeth
good.

14:2 The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children osee
if there were any that did understand, and seek God.

14:3 They araside, they are all together become filthy:
there is none that doeth got one.

14:4 Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat u as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.

14:5 There were they ear: for God is in the generation of
the righteous.

14:6 Ye have shamnsel of the poor, because the LORD is his
refuge.

14:7 Oh that the sa Israel were come out of Zion! when the
LORD bringeth back the captivieople, Jacob shall rejoice,
and Israel shall be glad.



15:1 Lord, whbide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy
holy hill?

15:2 He thauprightly, and worketh righteousness, and
speaketh the truth in his he He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his
neighboketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

15:4 In whose eyes a vile pontemned; but he honoureth them
that fear the LORD. He that sweareth t hurt, and changeth
not.

15:5 He that putteth not out his money to usaketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall neved.



16:1 Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.

16:2 thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou art my Lord: my
goodness extendeth e;

16:3 But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellents all my delight.

16:4 Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten er god:
their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up tinto my lips.

16:5 The LORD is the portion of mine inheritance and ofhou
maintainest my lot.

16:6 The lines are fallen unto me in pleasante a
goodly heritage.

16:7 I will bless the LORD, who hath given me coy reins also
instruct me in the night seasons.

16:8 I have set the LOefore me: because he is at my right
hand, I shall not be moved.

16:9  my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also
shall rest in:10 For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou
suffer One to see corruption.

16:11 Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in te is fulness
of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermorHear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my
prayer, t not out of feigned lips.

17:2 Let my sentence come forth from thy prthine eyes
behold the things that are equal.

17:3 Thou hast proved mihou hast visited me in the night;
thou hast tried me, and shalt find nam purposed that my
mouth shall not transgress.

17:4 Concerning the w, by the word of thy lips I have kept
me from the paths of the destroyHold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.

17:6 I haupon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline
thine ear unto me, anpeech.

17:7 Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up
again7:8 Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy
w From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who
compass 7:10 They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak
p7:11 They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their
eyesn to the earth;

17:12 Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and  a
young lion lurking in secret places.

17:13 Arise, O LORD, disappoi him down: deliver my soul
from the wicked, which is thy sword:

17:14which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world,
which have their pois life, and whose belly thou fillest
with thy hid treasure: they are f children, and leave the rest
of their substance to their babes.

17:me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be
satisfied, whe with thy likeness.



18:1 I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

18RD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God,
my strength,will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my
salvation, and my high towe will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall
I be smine enemies.

18:4 The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods y men
made me afraid.

18:5 The sorrows of hell compassed me about: th death
prevented me.

18:6 In my distress I called upon the LORD, and  my God: he
heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before hto his ears.

18:7 Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations e
hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

18:8 There went  out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kt.

18:9 He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was unet.

18:10 And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upogs of the wind.

18:11 He made darkness his secret place; his pavilionut him
were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

18:12 At the bthat was before him his thick clouds passed,
hail stones and coals of 13 The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his
vo stones and coals of fire.

18:14 Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scam; and he shot out
lightnings, and discomfited them.

18:15 Then the cwaters were seen, and the foundations of
the world were discovered at , O LORD, at the blast of the
breath of thy nostrils.

18:16 He sent fhe took me, he drew me out of many waters.

18:17 He delivered me fromg enemy, and from them which hated
me: for they were too strong for meey prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

rought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me,
because he d me.

18:20 The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; accord cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

18:21 For I have kept f the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

18:22 For allnts were before me, and I did not put away his
statutes from me.

18:2so upright before him, and I kept myself from mine
iniquity.

18:24 Ththe LORD recompensed me according to my
righteousness, according to thf my hands in his eyesight.

18:25 With the merciful thou wilt shew thul; with an
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

18:26 With thu wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself 
18:27 For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down
hi
18:28 For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten m

18:29 For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I
l a wall.

18:30 As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD ie is a buckler to all those that trust in him.

18:31 For who is God sRD? or who is a rock save our God?

18:32 It is God that girdeth me wih, and maketh my way
perfect.

18:33 He maketh my feet like hinds’ fetteth me upon my high
places.

18:34 He teacheth my hands to war, so  of steel is broken by
mine arms.

18:35 Thou hast also given me the shy salvation: and thy
right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness me great.

18:36 Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet d.

18:37 I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did in till they were consumed.

18:38 I have wounded them that they were o rise: they are
fallen under my feet.

18:39 For thou hast girded me gth unto the battle: thou hast
subdued under me those that rose up aga8:40 Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might
d that hate me.

18:41 They cried, but there was none to save them: eve LORD,
but he answered them not.

18:42 Then did I beat them small as efore the wind: I did
cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

18:43delivered me from the strivings of the people; and
thou hast made me t the heathen: a people whom I have not
known shall serve me.

18:44 Ashey hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers
shall submit themsele.

18:45 The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their cl

18:46 The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my be exalted.

18:47 It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the peopl

18:48 He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up
ab that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the
violent man.refore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and si unto thy name.

18:50 Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sh to
his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.



19:1 The eclare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth
his handywork.

19:day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth
knowledge.

19:3 Thespeech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

19:4 Their line ut through all the earth, and their words to
the end of the world. In  he set a tabernacle for the sun,

19:5 Which is as a bridegroom cominis chamber, and rejoiceth
as a strong man to run a race.

19:6 His goi from the end of the heaven, and his circuit
unto the ends of it: and ing hid from the heat thereof.

19:7 The law of the LORD is perfect, cg the soul: the
testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.

19:8 The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the
commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.

19:9 The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments
of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.

19:10 More to be desired are they than, yea, than much fine gold:
sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.reover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them
there is rd.

19:12 Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret
19:13 Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not
nion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be
innocent from thransgression.

19:14 Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of 
acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.



20:hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of
Jacob defend t Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of
Zion;

ber all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice;
Selah.

20:4 Grcording to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy
counsel.

20:5 We will thy salvation, and in the name of our God we
will set up our banners: l thy petitions.

20:6 Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; har him
from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hande trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember
the nameRD our God.

20:8 They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, pright.

20:9 Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.



21:1 Thall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation
how greatly shace!

21:2 Thou hast given him his heart’s desire, and hast not withhrequest of his lips. Selah.

21:3 For thou preventest him with the bleoodness: thou
settest a crown of pure gold on his head.

21:4 He askedhee, and thou gavest it him, even length of
days for ever and ever.

2ry is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou
laid upon hFor thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him
exceeith thy countenance.

21:7 For the king trusteth in the LORD, and throrcy of the
most High he shall not be moved.

21:8 Thine hand shall finhine enemies: thy right hand shall
find out those that hate thee.

21:t make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger:
the LORD shallem up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour
them.

21:10 Their fruitu destroy from the earth, and their seed
from among the children of meFor they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous
devicey are not able to perform.

21:12 Therefore shalt thou make them turn, when thou shalt
make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against thehem.

21:13 Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sise thy power.



22:1 My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why  far
from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?

22:2 O my God the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the
night season, and am n

22:3 But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israelur fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver
them.y cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee,
and were ded.

22:6 But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despise people.

22:7 All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out they shake the head, saying,

22:8 He trusted on the LORD that he woulim: let him deliver
him, seeing he delighted in him.

22:9 But thou arook me out of the womb: thou didst make me
hope when I was upon my motasts.

22:10 I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from s belly.

22:11 Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there i
help.

22:12 Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan havround.

22:13 They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and ion.

22:14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of jort is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.

22:15 My streied up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth
to my jaws; and thou hame into the dust of death.

22:16 For dogs have compassed me: the assee wicked have
inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

22:17 Iall my bones: they look and stare upon me.

22:18 They part my garmentem, and cast lots upon my vesture.

22:19 But be not thou far from me,O my strength, haste thee
to help me.

22:20 Deliver my soul from the darling from the power of the
dog.

22:21 Save me from the lion’s mothou hast heard me from the
horns of the unicorns.

22:22 I will declame unto my brethren: in the midst of the
congregation will I praise th Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob,
glorify ear him, all ye the seed of Israel.

22:24 For he hath not despised no the affliction of the
afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from hien he cried
unto him, he heard.

22:25 My praise shall be of thee in tcongregation: I will pay
my vows before them that fear him.

22:26 Thel eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD
that seek him: yourll live for ever.

22:27 All the ends of the world shall remember and the LORD:
and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before theFor the kingdom is the LORD’s: and he is the governor among the
nati29 All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they
thahe dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive
his own soul.

2hall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a
generation.

2 shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a
people that shrn, that he hath done this.



23:1 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall n3:2 He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside
taters.

23:3 He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of rightfor his name’s sake.

23:4 Yea, though I walk through the valley of  of death, I
will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy y
comfort me.

23:5 Thou preparest a table before me in the presence omies:
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

23:6 Suress and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: and I will dwellouse of the LORD for ever.



24:1 The earth is the LORD’s, and the ereof; the world, and
they that dwell therein.

24:2 For he hath found the seas, and established it upon the
floods.

24:3 Who shall ascend  hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in
his holy place?

24:4 He thatn hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted
up his soul unto vanity deceitfully.

24:5 He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and rs
from the God of his salvation.

24:6 This is the generation of them him, that seek thy face,
O Jacob. Selah.

24:7 Lift up your heads, O ynd be ye lift up, ye everlasting
doors; and the King of glory shall co:8 Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD
migttle.

24:9 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everdoors; and the King of glory shall come in.

24:10 Who is this King ofe LORD of hosts, he is the King of
glory. Selah.



25:1 Unto thee, O  lift up my soul.

25:2 O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamt mine
enemies triumph over me.

25:3 Yea, let none that wait on thee  let them be ashamed
which transgress without cause.

25:4 Shew me thyORD; teach me thy paths.

25:5 Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for the God of my
salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.

25:6 Remembe thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses;
for they have been ever 5:7 Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions:
accordinmercy remember thou me for thy goodness’ sake, O
LORD.

25:8 Good an is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in
the way.

25:9 The mee guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach
his way.

25:10 All th the LORD are mercy and truth unto such as keep
his covenant and his ts.

25:11 For thy name’s sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it .

25:12 What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in t he shall choose.

25:13 His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed sht the
earth.

25:14 The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him;
shew them his covenant.

25:15 Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; fo pluck my feet
out of the net.

25:16 Turn thee unto me, and have merc for I am desolate and
afflicted.

25:17 The troubles of my heart are  bring thou me out of my
distresses.

25:18 Look upon mine affliction n; and forgive all my sins.

25:19 Consider mine enemies; for they ared they hate me with
cruel hatred.

25:20 O keep my soul, and deliver mnot be ashamed; for I put
my trust in thee.

25:21 Let integrity and upreserve me; for I wait on thee.

25:22 Redeem Israel, O God, out of aubles.



26:1 Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: sted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide.

26:2 Examine me,  prove me; try my reins and my heart.

26:3 For thy lovingkindness is e eyes: and I have walked in
thy truth.

26:4 I have not sat with vaineither will I go in with
dissemblers.

26:5 I have hated the congregatl doers; and will not sit
with the wicked.

26:6 I will wash mine handcency: so will I compass thine
altar, O LORD:

26:7 That I may publish voice of thanksgiving, and tell of
all thy wondrous works.

26:8 LORDoved the habitation of thy house, and the place
where thine honour dwe:9 Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:

26:1 hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of
bribes.

26:11 But, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be
merciful unto me.

ndeth in an even place: in the congregations will I
bless the LORD.


 LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the
LORD is theof my life; of whom shall I be afraid?

27:2 When the wicked, even minand my foes, came upon me to
eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.
h an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear:
though waise against me, in this will I be confident.

27:4 One thing have I dehe LORD, that will I seek after;
that I may dwell in the house of the he days of my life, to
behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire ile.

27:5 For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion:ret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon
a rockd now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round
about me: will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy;
I will sing, yea, I raises unto the LORD.

27:7 Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: haso upon me,
and answer me.

27:8 When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; myd unto thee, Thy
face, LORD, will I seek.

27:9 Hide not thy face far put not thy servant away in anger:
thou hast been my help; leave me noforsake me, O God of my
salvation.

27:10 When my father and my mothere, then the LORD will take
me up.

27:11 Teach me thy way, O LORD, and a plain path, because
of mine enemies.

27:12 Deliver me not over unt of mine enemies: for false
witnesses are risen up against me, and suche out cruelty.

27:13 I had fainted, unless I had believed to see thef the
LORD in the land of the living.

27:14 Wait on the LORD: be of ge, and he shall strengthen
thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.



2hee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest,
if thou be me, I become like them that go down into the pit.

28:2 Hear the voiceplications, when I cry unto thee, when I
lift up my hands toward thy h.

28:3 Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of
iniqh speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in
their hearts.

2hem according to their deeds, and according to the
wickedness of their: give them after the work of their
hands; render to them their desertcause they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation
of his shall destroy them, and not build them up.

28:6 Blessed be the LORD,  hath heard the voice of my
supplications.

28:7 The LORD is my streng shield; my heart trusted in him,
and I am helped: therefore my heart joiceth; and with my
song will I praise him.

28:8 The LORD is their snd he is the saving strength of his
anointed.

28:9 Save thy people, athine inheritance: feed them also, and
lift them up for ever.



29:1 the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and
strength.

29:2 Gi LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD
in the beauty of h29:3 The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory
thundeLORD is upon many waters.

29:4 The voice of the LORD is powerful; thethe LORD is full
of majesty.

29:5 The voice of the LORD breaketh the a, the LORD breaketh
the cedars of Lebanon.

29:6 He maketh them also e a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like
a young unicorn.

29:7 The voice of ivideth the flames of fire.

29:8 The voice of the LORD shaketh the withe LORD shaketh
the wilderness of Kadesh.

29:9 The voice of the LORDe hinds to calve, and discovereth
the forests: and in his temple doth peak of his glory.

29:10 The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LO King for
ever.

29:11 The LORD will give strength unto his people; thll bless
his people with peace.



30:1 I will extol thee, O LORD; forifted me up, and hast
not made my foes to rejoice over me.

30:2 O LOR cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.

30:3 O LORD, thou hast bro soul from the grave: thou hast
kept me alive, that I should not go dopit.

30:4 Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at rance of his holiness.

30:5 For his anger endureth but a moment; in his life:
weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.

30:7 LORD, by thy fu hast made my mountain to stand strong:
thou didst hide thy face, and.

30:8 I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit?
Shall the dushee? shall it declare thy truth?

30:10 Hear, O LORD, and have mercy uRD, be thou my helper.

30:11 Thou hast turned for me my mourning intothou hast put
off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;

30:12 Toat my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be
silent.

O LORD my Godive thanks unto thee for ever.



31:1 In thee, O LORD, do I put my tre never be ashamed:
deliver me in thy righteousness.

31:2 Bow down thto me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong
rock, for an house of deave me.

31:3 For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy sake lead me, and guide me.

31:4 Pull me out of the net that they havvily for me: for
thou art my strength.

31:5 Into thine hand I commit : thou hast redeemed me, O LORD
God of truth.

31:6 I have hated them d lying vanities: but I trust in the
LORD.

31:7 I will be glad and rey mercy: for thou hast considered
my trouble; thou hast known my soul ies;

31:8 And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou ha feet in a large room.

31:9 Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in te eye is
consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.

31:10 For mypent with grief, and my years with sighing: my
strength faileth becausiniquity, and my bones are consumed.

31:11 I was a reproach among allies, but especially among my
neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintanthat did see me
without fled from me.

31:12 I am forgotten as a dead ind: I am like a broken
vessel.

31:13 For I have heard the slander of was on every side:
while they took counsel together against me, they  take away
my life.

31:14 But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou.

31:15 My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine
en from them that persecute me.

31:16 Make thy face to shine upon thy s me for thy
mercies’ sake.

31:17 Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; forlled upon thee: let
the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in t

31:18 Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous
thiy and contemptuously against the righteous.

31:19 Oh how great is thywhich thou hast laid up for them
that fear thee; which thou hast wroug that trust in thee
before the sons of men!

31:20 Thou shalt hide thesecret of thy presence from the
pride of man: thou shalt keep them sec pavilion from the
strife of tongues.

31:21 Blessed be the LORD: for ewed me his marvellous
kindness in a strong city.

31:22 For I said inI am cut off from before thine eyes:
nevertheless thou heardest the vosupplications when I cried
unto thee.

31:23 O love the LORD, all ye h for the LORD preserveth the
faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the p

31:24 Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye in the LORD.



32:1 Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, w
covered.

32:2 Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not inid
in whose spirit there is no guile.

32:3 When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all
the day long.

32:4 For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is
turned into the drought of summer. Selah.

32:5 I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid.
I said, I will confess my transgressions unto theD; and thou
forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.

32:6 For this shone that is godly pray unto thee in a time
when thou mayest be found: the floods of great waters they
shall not come nigh unto him.

32:7 Th hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble;
thou shalt compasswith songs of deliverance. Selah.

32:8 I will instruct thee and teachthe way which thou shalt
go: I will guide thee with mine eye.

32:9 Bethe horse, or as the mule, which have no
understanding: whose mouth mu in with bit and bridle, lest
they come near unto thee.

32:10 Many sol be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the
LORD, mercy shall comput.

32:11 Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout fl ye that are upright in heart.



33:1 Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righr praise is comely for the
upright.

33:2 Praise the LORD with harp: swith the psaltery and an
instrument of ten strings.

33:3 Sing unto hig; play skilfully with a loud noise.

33:4 For the word of the LORD isd all his works are done in
truth.

33:5 He loveth righteousness and jthe earth is full of the
goodness of the LORD.

33:6 By the word of the the heavens made; and all the host
of them by the breath of his moute gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth
up th storehouses.

33:8 Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabhe
world stand in awe of him.

33:9 For he spake, and it was done; he  and it stood fast.

33:10 The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathet: he
maketh the devices of the people of none effect.

33:11 The coun LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his
heart to all generations.essed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom
he hathor his own inheritance.

33:13 The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdhe sons of men.

33:14 From the place of his habitation he looketh uponhabitants of the earth.

33:15 He fashioneth their hearts alike; he call their
works.

33:16 There is no king saved by the multitude of an ghty man
is not delivered by much strength.

33:17 An horse is a vain safety: neither shall he deliver
any by his great strength.

33:18 Behye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon
them that hope in his 9 To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in
famine.
 soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.

33:21 For  shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in
his holy name.

33:2 mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.



34:1 I wie LORD at all times: his praise shall continually
be in my mouth.

34: shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear
thereof, and 34:3 O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.

ht the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my
fears.

34:ked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were
not ashamed.

3or man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of
all his tro:7 The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him,
andh them.

34:8 O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the masteth in him.

34:9 O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no wathat
fear him.

34:10 The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but seek
the LORD shall not want any good thing.

34:11 Come, ye children,nto me: I will teach you the fear of
the LORD.

34:12 What man is he th life, and loveth many days, that he
may see good?

34:13 Keep thy toevil, and thy lips from speaking guile.

34:14 Depart from evil, and dek peace, and pursue it.

34:15 The eyes of the LORD are upon the righd his ears are
open unto their cry.

34:16 The face of the LORD is agathat do evil, to cut off
the remembrance of them from the earth.

34:1eous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out
of all their t34:18 The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and
savetbe of a contrite spirit.

34:19 Many are the afflictions of the rightehe LORD
delivereth him out of them all.

34:20 He keepeth all his bone of them is broken.

34:21 Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hghteous
shall be desolate.

34:22 The LORD redeemeth the soul of his sand none of them
that trust in him shall be desolate.



35:1 Plead myLORD, with them that strive with me: fight
against them that fight aga35:2 Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.

35: also the spear, and stop the way against them that
persecute me: say oul, I am thy salvation.

35:4 Let them be confounded and put to shamek after my soul:
let them be turned back and brought to confusion that hurt.

35:5 Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel ochase them.

35:6 Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angeRD
persecute them.

35:7 For without cause have they hid for me their pit, which
without cause they have digged for my soul.

35:8 Let destr upon him at unawares; and let his net that
he hath hid catch himself: very destruction let him fall.

35:9 And my soul shall be joyful in tall rejoice in his
salvation.

35:10 All my bones shall say, LORD, whoto thee, which
deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for himpoor
and the needy from him that spoileth him?

35:11 False witnesses p; they laid to my charge things that
I knew not.

35:12 They rewardedor good to the spoiling of my soul.

35:13 But as for me, when they wey clothing was sackcloth: I
humbled my soul with fasting; and my praye into mine own
bosom.

35:14 I behaved myself as though he had been mybrother: I
bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.

3 mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves
together: yea, ts gathered themselves together against me,
and I knew it not; they diand ceased not:

35:16 With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashwith
their teeth.

35:17 Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my sir
destructions, my darling from the lions.

35:18 I will give thee the great congregation: I will praise
thee among much people.

35:19 Let that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me:
neither let them wie eye that hate me without a cause.

35:20 For they speak not peace: bise deceitful matters
against them that are quiet in the land.

35:21 opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha,
aha, our eye hath s35:22 This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not
fa

35:23 Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my Lord.

35:24 Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousnet
them not rejoice over me.

35:25 Let them not say in their hearts, Ad we have it: let
them not say, We have swallowed him up.

35:26 Let thamed and brought to confusion together that
rejoice at mine hurt: letothed with shame and dishonour
that magnify themselves against me.

35m shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous
cause: yea, letcontinually, Let the LORD be magnified, which
hath pleasure in the pro his servant.

35:28 And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness anraise
all the day long.



36:1 The transgression of the wicked saith eart, that there
is no fear of God before his eyes.

36:2 For he flattelf in his own eyes, until his iniquity be
found to be hateful.

36:3  of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off
to be wise, anod.

36:4 He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a w not good; he abhorreth not evil.

36:5 Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the hd thy faithfulness
reacheth unto the clouds.

36:6 Thy righteousness i great mountains; thy judgments are
a great deep: O LORD, thou preserv beast.

36:7 How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore th of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.

36:8 They shalantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house;
and thou shalt make thef the river of thy pleasures.

36:9 For with thee is the fountain of ly light shall we see
light.

36:10 O continue thy lovingkindness unto know thee; and thy
righteousness to the upright in heart.

36:11 Let n of pride come against me, and let not the hand
of the wicked remove m There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down,
and shae able to rise.



37:1 Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neithernvious
against the workers of iniquity.

37:2 For they shall soon be c the grass, and wither as the
green herb.

37:3 Trust in the LORD, and so shalt thou dwell in the land,
and verily thou shalt be fed.

37:4 self also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the
desires of thine heaCommit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall
bring it
37:6 And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thyas the noonday.

37:7 Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: frself
because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who
icked devices to pass.

37:8 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fretlf in any wise
to do evil.

37:9 For evildoers shall be cut off: but twait upon the
LORD, they shall inherit the earth.

37:10 For yet a lit, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou
shalt diligently consider hisnd it shall not be.

37:11 But the meek shall inherit the earth; and st
themselves in the abundance of peace.

37:12 The wicked plotteth aga gnasheth upon him with
his teeth.

37:13 The LORD shall laugh at him:eth that his day is
coming.

37:14 The wicked have drawn out the sworde bent their bow, to
cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such asght
conversation.

37:15 Their sword shall enter into their own heart,bows
shall be broken.

37:16 A little that a righteous man hath is bethe riches of
many wicked.

37:17 For the arms of the wicked shall be bt the LORD
upholdeth the righteous.

37:18 The LORD knoweth the days oght: and their inheritance
shall be for ever.

37:19 They shall not ben the evil time: and in the days of
famine they shall be satisfied.

3he wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall
be as the fa: they shall consume; into smoke shall they
consume away.

37:21 The woweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous
sheweth mercy, and giveFor such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they
that bf him shall be cut off.

37:23 The steps of a good man are ordered by  and he
delighteth in his way.

37:24 Though he fall, he shall not be st down: for the LORD
upholdeth him with his hand.

37:25 I have been now am old; yet have I not seen the
righteous forsaken, nor his seed bad.

37:26 He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.
art from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.

37:28 For the LORudgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they
are preserved for ever: bu of the wicked shall be cut off.

37:29 The righteous shall inherit thdwell therein for
ever.

37:30 The mouth of the righteous speaketh wishis tongue
talketh of judgment.

37:31 The law of his God is in his heof his steps shall
slide.

37:32 The wicked watcheth the righteous, anto slay him.

37:33 The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor conden he
is judged.

37:34 Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shalee to
inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself
like a gree.

37:36 Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, ld not be found.

37:37 Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: nd of
that man is peace.

37:38 But the transgressors shall be destroyr: the end of
the wicked shall be cut off.

37:39 But the salvation ofteous is of the LORD: he is their
strength in the time of trouble.

37 LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver
them from thand save them, because they trust in him.



38:1 O lord, rebuke me nowrath: neither chasten me in thy hot
displeasure.

38:2 For thine arroast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.

38:3 There is no soundness esh because of thine anger; neither
is there any rest in my bones becasin.

38:4 For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy bure too heavy for me.

38:5 My wounds stink and are corrupt because of ness.

38:6 I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all g.

38:7 For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there iness in my flesh.

38:8 I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by the
disquietness of my heart.

38:9 Lord, all my desire is before theeroaning is not hid
from thee.

38:10 My heart panteth, my strength fais for the light of
mine eyes, it also is gone from me.

38:11 My loveriends stand aloof from my sore; and my
kinsmen stand afar off.

38:12 that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they
that seek my hurt chievous things, and imagine deceits all
the day long.

38:13 But I, aan, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that
openeth not his mouth.

38was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no
reproofs.

38 thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.

38:16 For I  me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me:
when my foot slippethify themselves against me.

38:17 For I am ready to halt, and my sorronually before me.

38:18 For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sy sin.

38:19 But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and th me wrongfully are multiplied.

38:20 They also that render evil for gne adversaries;
because I follow the thing that good is.

38:21 ForsakO LORD: O my God, be not far from me.

38:22 Make haste to help me, O n.



39:1 I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before
me.

39:mb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my
sorrow was st:3 My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned:
thewith my tongue,

39:4 LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure , what
it is: that I may know how frail I am.

39:5 Behold, thou hast ays as an handbreadth; and mine age is
as nothing before thee: verily at his best state is
altogether vanity.

Selah.

39:6 Surely every man a vain shew: surely they are
disquieted in vain: he heapeth up richeseth not who shall
gather them.

39:7 And now, Lord, what wait I for? min thee.

39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the f the foolish.

39:9 I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou d39:10 Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of
thi39:11 When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou
makesy to consume away like a moth: surely every man is
vanity. Selah.

39: prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy
peace at my te am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as
all my fathers were.

39e me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and
be no more.
waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and
heard my ce brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry
clay, andet upon a rock, and established my goings.

40:3 And he hath put a new mouth, even praise unto our God:
many shall see it, and fear, and shan the LORD.

40:4 Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, cteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

40:5 Many, O LORre thy wonderful works which thou hast
done, and thy thoughts which arrd: they cannot be reckoned
up in order unto thee: if I would declare of them, they are
more than can be numbered.

40:6 Sacrifice and offeridst not desire; mine ears hast thou
opened: burnt offering and sin oft thou not required.

40:7 Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of tt is written
of me,

40:8 I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thyhin my
heart.

40:9 I have preached righteousness in the great congreg
have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.

40:10 I have not hhteousness within my heart; I have
declared thy faithfulness and thy sI have not concealed thy
lovingkindness and thy truth from the great c.

40:11 Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thyndness and thy truth continually preserve me.

40:12 For innumerable ecompassed me about: mine iniquities
have taken hold upon me, so that Ile to look up; they are
more than the hairs of mine head: therefore myeart faileth me.

40:13 Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help
me.

40:14 Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my
soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that
wish me evil.

40:15 Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto
me, Aha, aha.

40:16 Let all those t thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let
such as love thy salvation say y, The LORD be magnified.

40:17 But I am poor and needy; yet the Lordpon me: thou art
my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.essed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver
him in tible.

41:2 The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shaled upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of
his 

41:3 The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou
ll his bed in his sickness.

41:4 I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: h; for I have
sinned against thee.

41:5 Mine enemies speak evil of me,l he die, and his name
perish?

41:6 And if he come to see me, he speay: his heart gathereth
iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he te41:7 All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they
hurt.

41:8 An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and nowlieth he shall rise up no more.

41:9 Yea, mine own familiar friend, irusted, which did eat
of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me., O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I
may requite thethis I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth
not triump

41:12 And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settese thy face for ever.

41:13 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from eveand to
everlasting. Amen, and Amen.



42:1 As the hart panteth after brooks, so panteth my soul
after thee, O God.

42:2 My soul thirsteth for the living God: when shall I come
and appear before God?

42:3 My been my meat day and night, while they continually
say unto me, Where 

42:4 When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I hh the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with
the voice praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.

42:5 Why art thou cast dooul? and why art thou disquieted in
me?  hope thou in God: for I shalle him for the help of his
countenance.

42:6 O my God, my soul is castin me: therefore will I
remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of ites, from the
hill Mizar.

42:7 Deep calleth unto deep at the noise oerspouts: all thy
waves and thy billows are gone over me.

42:8 Yet thl command his lovingkindness in the day time, and
in the night his son with me, and my prayer unto the God of
my life.

42:9 I will say untock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I
mourning because of the opprehe enemy?

42:10 As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach mehey say daily unto me, Where is thy God?

42:11 Why art thou cast down? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope thou in God: for I shallaise him, who is the
health of my countenance, and my God.



43:1 Judod, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O
deliver me from thl and unjust man.

43:2 For thou art the God of my strength: why dost me off?
why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

43:hy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them
bring me unto thy hd to thy tabernacles.

43:4 Then will I go unto the altar of God, untoeeding joy:
yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.

43:5ou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope iI shall yet praise him, who is the health
of my countenance, and my GoWe have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us,
what wort in their days, in the times of old.

44:2 How thou didst drive out t with thy hand, and plantedst
them; how thou didst afflict the people,hem out.

44:3 For they got not the land in possession by their own swr did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine
arm, and f thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour
unto them.

44:4 Thou ag, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.

44:5 Through thee will we pr enemies: through thy name will
we tread them under that rise up agai4:6 For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.

4u hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to
shame that hate8 In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever.

SelBut thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth
with 
44:10 Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hatefor themselves.

44:11 Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat
scattered us among the heathen.

44:12 Thou sellest thy people for n dost not increase thy
wealth by their price.

44:13 Thou makest us a  our neighbours, a scorn and a
derision to them that are round about uhou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head
among 

44:15 My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my facred me,

44:16 For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; f the enemy and avenger.

44:17 All this is come upon us; yet have we en thee,
neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.

44:18 Our heaurned back, neither have our steps declined
from thy way;

44:19 Thougt sore broken us in the place of dragons, and
covered us with the shad.

44:20 If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out ou strange god;

44:21 Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the the
heart.

44:22 Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; wted
as sheep for the slaughter.

44:23 Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lor not off for
ever.

44:24 Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgetteliction
and our oppression?

44:25 For our soul is bowed down to the dlly cleaveth unto
the earth.

44:26 Arise for our help, and redeem us ercies’ sake.



45:1 My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak ofs which I
have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready45:2 Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into
therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

45:3 Gird thy sword upon thy ost mighty, with thy glory and
thy majesty.

45:4 And in thy majesty rrously because of truth and
meekness and righteousness; and thy right  teach thee
terrible things.

45:5 Thine arrows are sharp in the heartg’s enemies;
whereby the people fall under thee.

45:6 Thy throne, Oor ever and ever: the sceptre of thy
kingdom is a right sceptre.

45:7est righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God,
thy God, hathhee with the oil of gladness above thy
fellows.

45:8 All thy garmentsf myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of
the ivory palaces, whereby they thee glad.

45:9 Kings’ daughters were among thy honourable women: ight
hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.

45:10 Hearken, O daugconsider, and incline thine ear; forget
also thine own people, and thyhouse;

45:11 So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is tnd worship thou him.

45:12 And the daughter of Tyre shall be there wi; even the
rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.

45:13 The aughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of
wrought gold.

45:1l be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the
virgins her cthat follow her shall be brought unto thee.

45:15 With gladness and rshall they be brought: they shall
enter into the king’s palace.

45: of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest
make princes iearth.

45:17 I will make thy name to be remembered in all generationsre shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.



46:1 God is our  strength, a very present help in trouble.

46:2 Therefore will not weugh the earth be removed, and
though the mountains be carried into thethe sea;

46:3 Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though ns shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.

46:4 There is a river, thehereof shall make glad the city of
God, the holy place of the tabernac most High.

46:5 God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: 
help her, and that right early.

46:6 The heathen raged, the kingdoms: he uttered his voice,
the earth melted.

46:7 The LORD of hosts is whe God of Jacob is our refuge.
Selah.

46:8 Come, behold the works of  what desolations he hath made
in the earth.

46:9 He maketh wars to cthe end of the earth; he breaketh
the bow, and cutteth the spear in suurneth the chariot in
the fire.

46:10 Be still, and know that I am Go be exalted among the
heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.

46:11 of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.
Selah.



47:1 O hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice
of triumph.

47:2 ORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all
the earth.

47:l subdue the people under us, and the nations under our
feet.

47:4 Heoose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob
whom he loved. Se God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a
trumpet.

4praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King,
sing praisesr God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with
understandingd reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his
holine The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people
of tAbraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God:
he is greatly e48:1 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our
Ge mountain of his holiness.

48:2 Beautiful for situation, the joy of  earth, is mount
Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the grea8:3 God is known in her palaces for a refuge.

48:4 For, lo, the kingsmbled, they passed by together.

48:5 They saw it, and so they marvellwere troubled, and
hasted away.

48:6 Fear took hold upon them there, f a woman in
travail.

48:7 Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with a

48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of
hoe city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.

48:9 We havf thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy
temple.

48:10 Accordname, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of
the earth: thy right ha of righteousness.

48:11 Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters oflad,
because of thy judgments.

48:12 Walk about Zion, and go round abell the towers
thereof.

48:13 Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider herhat ye may
tell it to the generation following.

48:14 For this God isor ever and ever: he will be our guide
even unto death.



49:1 Hear t people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the
world:

49:2 Both low andand poor, together.

49:3 My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the medimy heart
shall be of understanding.

49:4 I will incline mine ear to aI will open my dark saying
upon the harp.

49:5 Wherefore should I feaays of evil, when the iniquity of
my heels shall compass me about?

49t trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the
multitude of thei
49:7 None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to Go for him:

49:8 (For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it r
ever:)

49:9 That he should still live for ever, and not see corrupt0 For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the
brutish pe, and leave their wealth to others.

49:11 Their inward thought is, thouses shall continue for
ever, and their dwelling places to all genera call their
lands after their own names.

49:12 Nevertheless man being abideth not: he is like the
beasts that perish.

49:13 This their wayolly: yet their posterity approve their
sayings. Selah.

49:14 Like shre laid in the grave; death shall feed on them;
and the upright shall nion over them in the morning; and
their beauty shall consume in the gtheir dwelling.

49:15 But God will redeem my soul from the power of tr he
shall receive me. Selah.

49:16 Be not thou afraid when one is mahen the glory of his
house is increased;

49:17 For when he dieth he s nothing away: his glory shall
not descend after him.

49:18 Though whed he blessed his soul: and men will praise
thee, when thou doest well.

49:19 He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall nevet.

49:20 Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beerish.



50:1 The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called rom the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.

50:2 Out of Zirfection of beauty, God hath shined.

50:3 Our God shall come, and shasilence: a fire shall
devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuabout him.

50:4 He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the e
he may judge his people.

50:5 Gather my saints together unto me; thoe made a
covenant with me by sacrifice.

50:6 And the heavens shall deighteousness: for God is judge
himself. Selah.

50:7 Hear, O my peoplell speak; O Israel, and I will testify
against thee: I am God, even th8 I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt
offerings, tn continually before me.

50:9 I will take no bullock out of thy housets out of thy
folds.

50:10 For every beast of the forest is mine, ande upon a
thousand hills.

50:11 I know all the fowls of the mountains:ild beasts of
the field are mine.

50:12 If I were hungry, I would not: for the world is mine,
and the fulness thereof.

50:13 Will I eat thbulls, or drink the blood of goats?

50:14 Offer unto God thanksgivingthy vows unto the most
High:

50:15 And call upon me in the day of troll deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me.

50:16 But unto the wicked, What hast thou to do to declare
my statutes, or that thou shouldest venant in thy mouth?

50:17 Seeing thou hatest instruction, and castetbehind
thee.

50:18 When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst wind
hast been partaker with adulterers.

50:19 Thou givest thy mouth tothy tongue frameth deceit.

50:20 Thou sittest and speakest against th thou slanderest
thine own mother’s son.

50:21 These things hast thand I kept silence; thou thoughtest
that I was altogether such an one I will reprove thee,
and set them in order before thine eyes.

50:22 N this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in
pieces, and there be nonr.

50:23 Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that orderetrsation aright will I shew the salvation of God.



51:1 Have mercy upd, according to thy lovingkindness:
according unto the multitude of thercies blot out my
transgressions.

51:2 Wash me throughly from mine id cleanse me from my sin.

51:3 For I acknowledge my transgressions: as ever before
me.

51:4 Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and doil in thy
sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, ar when thou judgest.

51:5 Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sither
conceive me.

51:6 Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward partthe
hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

51:7 Purge me withd I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall
be whiter than snow.

51:8 Maar joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast
broken may rejoicede thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

51:10 Cre clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit
within me.

51:11 Cast mrom thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit
from me.

51:12 Restorehe joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy
free spirit.

51:13 Theach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be
converted unto thee.liver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my
salvation: and my sing aloud of thy righteousness.

51:15 O Lord, open thou my lips; anh shall shew forth thy
praise.

51:16 For thou desirest not sacrifice;d I give it: thou
delightest not in burnt offering.

51:17 The sacrifiare a broken spirit: a broken and a
contrite heart, O God, thou wilt n.

51:18 Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls em.

51:19 Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteous burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer
bullocine altar.



52:1 Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty manness
of God endureth continually.

52:2 The tongue deviseth mischiefs;arp razor, working
deceitfully.

52:3 Thou lovest evil more than good; rather than to speak
righteousness. Selah.

52:4 Thou lovest all devos, O thou deceitful tongue.

52:5 God shall likewise destroy thee for all take thee
away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and rootf
the land of the living. Selah.

52:6 The righteous also shall see, aand shall laugh at him:

52:7 Lo, this is the man that made not God hi; but trusted
in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himselfckedness.

52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: the mercy of God for ever and ever.

52:9 I will praise thee for ever,ou hast done it: and I
will wait on thy name; for it is good before th


53:1 The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are
ave done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth
good.

53:2 God from heaven upon the children of men, to see if
there were any that dstand, that did seek God.

53:3 Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become
filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

53:4 Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people
as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.

53:5 There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath
scattered the bonethat encampeth against thee: thou hast put
them to shame, because God sed them.

53:6 Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion!ringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and
Isre glad.



54:1 Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy stren:2 Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.

54:3 Forare risen up against me, and oppressors seek after
my soul: they have d before them. Selah.

54:4 Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is wit uphold my
soul.

54:5 He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut thy
truth.

54:6 I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy na; for it is good.

54:7 For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: a hath
seen his desire upon mine enemies.



55:1 Give ear to my prayere not thyself from my
supplication.

55:2 Attend unto me, and hear me: my complaint, and make a
noise;

55:3 Because of the voice of the ene of the oppression of
the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and ey hate me.

55:4 My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors o
fallen upon me.

55:5 Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, andh
overwhelmed me.

55:6 And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! fuld I fly
away, and be at rest.

55:7 Lo, then would I wander far off, in the wilderness.
Selah.

55:8 I would hasten my escape from the wind tempest.

55:9 Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I havence and strife in the city.

55:10 Day and night they go about it uponthereof: mischief
also and sorrow are in the midst of it.

55:11 Wicke the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not
from her streets.

55:was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have
borne it: neithe that hated me that did magnify himself
against me; then I would havefrom him:

55:13 But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and minece.

55:14 We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house ompany.

55:15 Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick inor wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.

55:16 As for me,l upon God; and the LORD shall save me.

55:17 Evening, and morning, a, will I pray, and cry aloud:
and he shall hear my voice.

55:18 He had my soul in peace from the battle that was
against me: for there wereme.

55:19 God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of o Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.

55:20 He orth his hands against such as be at peace with
him: he hath broken hi

55:21 The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was t: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.

55:22 rden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he
shall never suffer ts to be moved.

55:23 But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the ruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their
days;  trust in thee.



56:1 Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swale
fighting daily oppresseth me.

56:2 Mine enemies would daily swallow they be many that
fight against me, O thou most High.

56:3 What timed, I will trust in thee.

56:4 In God I will praise his word, in God Iy trust; I will
not fear what flesh can do unto me.

56:5 Every day th words: all their thoughts are against me
for evil.

56:6 They gather together, they hide themselves, they mark
my steps, when they wait for56:7 Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the
peopl6:8 Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle:
aren thy book?

56:9 When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn b
know; for God is for me.

56:10 In God will I praise his word: in the I praise his
word.

56:11 In God have I put my trust: I will not be aman can do
unto me.

56:12 Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render o thee.

56:13 For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thr my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light
of the
57:1 Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul
truee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my
refuge, until these be overpast.

57:2 I will cry unto God most high; unto God that perfohings for me.

57:3 He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reim
that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and

57:4 My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set en the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and
their tonguword.

57:5 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory bl the earth.

57:6 They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is b
they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are
falves. Selah.

57:7 My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will ve
praise.

57:8 Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I mysele
early.

57:9 I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sie among the nations.

57:10 For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, a unto the
clouds.

57:11 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: lebove all the earth.



58:1 Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congre ye judge
uprightly, O ye sons of men?

58:2 Yea, in heart ye work wicye weigh the violence of your
hands in the earth.

58:3 The wicked are from the womb: they go astray as soon as
they be born, speaking lies.eir poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the
deaf addoppeth her ear;

58:5 Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers,ever
so wisely.

58:6 Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break eat
teeth of the young lions, O LORD.

58:7 Let them melt away as wateun continually: when he
bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them in pieces.

58:8 As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass 
the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.

58:9 Br pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as
with a whirlwining, and in his wrath.

58:10 The righteous shall rejoice when he seetgeance: he
shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.

58:11 So t shall say, Verily there is a reward for the
righteous: verily he is ajudgeth in the earth.



59:1 Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God:  from them that
rise up against me.

59:2 Deliver me from the workers y, and save me from bloody
men.

59:3 For, lo, they lie in wait for my mighty are gathered
against me; not for my transgression, nor for my RD.

59:4 They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to hd behold.

59:5 Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israelo
visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors.
:6 They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go
round ity.

59:7 Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their who, say they, doth hear?

59:8 But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at thealt have all the
heathen in derision.

59:9 Because of his strength wiupon thee: for God is my
defence.

59:10 The God of my mercy shall preod shall let me see my
desire upon mine enemies.

59:11 Slay them not,people forget: scatter them by thy power;
and bring them down, O Lord .

59:12 For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let th taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they
speak.

59 them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and
let them know uleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth.
Selah.

59:14 And at eveninreturn; and let them make a noise like a
dog, and go round about the c Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not
satis:16 But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy
mercy ning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the
day of my troublUnto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence,
and the  mercy.



60:1 O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.

60:2 Thou hast made the mble; thou hast broken it: heal
the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.
 hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to
drink the winishment.

60:4 Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that displayed because of the truth. Selah.

60:5 That thy beloved may be dsave with thy right hand, and
hear me.

60:6 God hath spoken in his ho will rejoice, I will divide
Shechem, and mete out the valley of SuccoGilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the
strength of  Judah is my lawgiver;

60:8 Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I caste: Philistia,
triumph thou because of me.

60:9 Who will bring me intong city? who will lead me into
Edom?

60:10 Wilt not thou, O God, whicst us off? and thou, O God,
which didst not go out with our armies?

6us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

60:12 Through God o valiantly: for he it is that shall tread
down our enemies.



61:1 H, O God; attend unto my prayer.

61:2 From the end of the earth will Ithee, when my heart is
overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher61:3 For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the
:4 I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the
covertngs. Selah.

61:5 For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast givenge of those that fear thy name.

61:6 Thou wilt prolong the king’s lhis years as many
generations.

61:7 He shall abide before God for evere mercy and truth,
which may preserve him.

61:8 So will I sing praisy name for ever, that I may daily
perform my vows.



62:1 Truly my so upon God: from him cometh my salvation.

62:2 He only is my rock and on; he is my defence; I shall
not be greatly moved.

62:3 How long wilne mischief against a man? ye shall be
slain all of you: as a bowing wye be, and as a tottering
fence.

62:4 They only consult to cast him dis excellency: they
delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but  inwardly.
Selah.

62:5 My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expecfrom him.

62:6 He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence;t be moved.

62:7 In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my and
my refuge, is in God.

62:8 Trust in him at all times; ye people, our heart before
him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.

62:9 Surely men ree are vanity, and men of high degree are a
lie: to be laid in the bay are altogether lighter than
vanity.

62:10 Trust not in oppression,  not vain in robbery: if
riches increase, set not your heart upon them1 God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power
belongeth 
62:12 Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to
ccording to his work.



63:1 O God, thou art my God; early will I seey soul thirsteth
for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirhere
no water is;

63:2 To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have sn the
sanctuary.

63:3 Because thy lovingkindness is better than life,hall
praise thee.

63:4 Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will liands in
thy name.

63:5 My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and nd my
mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:

63:6 When I remember my bed, and meditate on thee in the
night watches.

63:7 Because thou y help, therefore in the shadow of thy
wings will I rejoice.

63:8 My loweth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.

63:9 But those tmy soul, to destroy it, shall go into the
lower parts of the earth.

6hall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.

63:11 But shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by
him shall glory: but of them that speak lies shall be
stopped.



64:1 Hear my voice, O Godrayer: preserve my life from fear of
the enemy.

64:2 Hide me from theunsel of the wicked; from the
insurrection of the workers of iniquity: whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot
their ar bitter words:

64:4 That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: sudhey
shoot at him, and fear not.

64:5 They encourage themselves in an r: they commune of
laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see themey search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search:
both the ought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.

64:7 But God shal them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be
wounded.

64:8 So they shair own tongue to fall upon themselves: all
that see them shall flee awAnd all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for
they sh consider of his doing.

64:10 The righteous shall be glad in the LORDl trust in him;
and all the upright in heart shall glory.



65:1 Praih for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the
vow be performed.
ou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.

65:3 Iniquiti against me: as for our transgressions, thou
shalt purge them away.

6d is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach
unto thee, th dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with
the goodness of thy h of thy holy temple.

65:5 By terrible things in righteousness wilt thus, O God of
our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of 
and of them that are afar off upon the sea:

65:6 Which by his strengh fast the mountains; being girded
with power:

65:7 Which stilleth th the seas, the noise of their waves,
and the tumult of the people.

65so that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy
tokens: thou maoutgoings of the morning and evening to
rejoice.

65:9 Thou visitest tand waterest it: thou greatly enrichest
it with the river of God, whicf water: thou preparest them
corn, when thou hast so provided for it.
u waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the
furrows th makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the
springing thereof.

65rownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop
fatness.

65:12p upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little
hills rejoice on.

65:13 The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are
cor with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.



66:1 Make a joyful God, all ye lands:

66:2 Sing forth the honour of his name: make his orious.

66:3 Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! througness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto
thee.

66earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they
shall sing to. Selah.

66:5 Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his do
the children of men.

66:6 He turned the sea into dry land: they wenthe flood on
foot: there did we rejoice in him.

66:7 He ruleth by his ever; his eyes behold the nations: let
not the rebellious exalt themseh.

66:8 O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise d:

66:9 Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to

66:10 For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver
66:11 Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon ou66:12 Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through
firugh water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy
place.

66:13 I wnto thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee
my vows,

66:14 Whs have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was
in trouble.

66:1fer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the
incense of rams; r bullocks with goats. Selah.

66:16 Come and hear, all ye that fear Gwill declare what he
hath done for my soul.

66:17 I cried unto him wi, and he was extolled with my
tongue.

66:18 If I regard iniquity in mhe Lord will not hear me:

66:19 But verily God hath heard me; he hatho the voice of
my prayer.

66:20 Blessed be God, which hath not turnedrayer, nor his
mercy from me.



67:1 God be merciful unto us, and blecause his face to
shine upon us; Selah.

67:2 That thy way may be knowth, thy saving health among all
nations.

67:3 Let the people praise t let all the people praise
thee.

67:4 O let the nations be glad and s: for thou shalt judge
the people righteously, and govern the nations  Selah.

67:5 Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people pr
67:6 Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own
Gless us.

67:7 God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall

68:1 Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also thatflee before him.

68:2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth
before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.

68:3 But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea,
let them exceedingly rejoice.

68:4 Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth
upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.

68:5 A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in
his holy habitation.

68:6 God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which
are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.

68:7 O God, when thou wenest forth before thy people, when thou didst
march through the wildern:

68:8 The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of GSinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

68: God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst
confirm thine in when it was weary.

68:10 Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, t prepared
of thy goodness for the poor.

68:11 The Lord gave the word the company of those that
published it.

68:12 Kings of armies did fl and she that tarried at home
divided the spoil.

68:13 Though ye haveg the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings
of a dove covered with silver feathers with yellow gold.

68:14 When the Almighty scattered kings ias white as snow in
Salmon.

68:15 The hill of God is as the hill of Bhill as the
hill of Bashan.

68:16 Why leap ye, ye high hills? this ishill which God desireth
to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell in it fo8:17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of
angels is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.

68:18 Thou hast ascenh, thou hast led captivity captive:
thou hast received gifts for men; the rebellious also, that
the LORD God might dwell among them.

68:19  the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even
the God of our salah.

68:20 He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto GOD thong the issues from death.

68:21 But God shall wound the head of his nd the hairy scalp
of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses. Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my
people aga depths of the sea:

68:23 That thy foot may be dipped in the blood ofmies, and
the tongue of thy dogs in the same.

68:24 They have seen thO God; even the goings of my God, my
King, in the sanctuary.

68:25 Th went before, the players on instruments followed
after; among them wedamsels playing with timbrels.

68:26 Bless ye God in the congregatione Lord, from the
fountain of Israel.

68:27 There is little Benjamin w ruler, the princes of Judah
and their council, the princes of Zebulunrinces of
Naphtali.

68:28 Thy God hath commanded thy strength: streng, that
which thou hast wrought for us.

68:29 Because of thy temple atshall kings bring presents
unto thee.

68:30 Rebuke the company of spethe multitude of the bulls, with
the calves of the people, till every  himself with pieces of
silver: scatter thou the people that delight i8:31 Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out
unto God.

68:32 Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praise
Lord; Selah:

68:33 To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, of
old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.

68:3e strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and
his strength iouds.

68:35 O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed
be God.
ve me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.

69:2 I sink in, where there is no standing: I am come into
deep waters, where the fllow me.

69:3 I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fI wait for my God.

69:4 They that hate me without a cause are more thirs of mine
head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrong
mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.

69:5 O God, thou foolishness; and my sins are not hid from
thee.

69:6 Let not them th thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed
for my sake: let not those thatee be confounded for my sake, O
God of Israel.

69:7 Because for thy se borne reproach; shame hath covered my
face.

69:8 I am become a stramy brethren, and an alien unto my
mother’s children.

69:9 For the ze house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches
of them that reproached tllen upon me.

69:10 When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, o my
reproach.

69:11 I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became ao
them.

69:12 They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was t the drunkards.

69:13 But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O LORD, table
time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truthalvation.

69:14 Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let ered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.

69:15 Let noflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow
me up, and let not theher mouth upon me.

69:16 Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness is gnto me
according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.

69:17 And hiy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble:
hear me speedily.

69:18 unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of
mine enemies.

69:t known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour:
mine adversaries efore thee.

69:20 Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heand I
looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comfortfound none.

69:21 They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirse
me vinegar to drink.

69:22 Let their table become a snare before thwhich
should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.

69:23r eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their
loins continuall

69:24 Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful angld of them.

69:25 Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dweltents.

69:26 For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they he grief of those whom thou hast wounded.

69:27 Add iniquity unto they: and let them not come into thy
righteousness.

69:28 Let them be bl of the book of the living, and not be
written with the righteous.

69am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up
on high.

6ll praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him
with thank69:31 This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock
thans and hoofs.

69:32 The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your 
live that seek God.

69:33 For the LORD heareth the poor, and despisehis prisoners.

69:34 Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, athing
that moveth therein.

69:35 For God will save Zion, and will buiies of Judah: that
they may dwell there, and have it in possession.

6eed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that
love his namell therein.



70:1 Make haste, O God, to deliver me; make haste to heord.

70:2 Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul:be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.

70:3 Lturned back for a reward of their shame that say,
Aha, aha.

70:4 Let hat seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let
such as love thy say continually, Let God be magnified.

70:5 But I am poor and needy: manto me, O God: thou art my
help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarr:1 In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to
confusioeliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline
thine e, and save me.

71:3 Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may coresort:
thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock aress.

71:4 Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out o of the unrighteous and cruel man.

71:5 For thou art my hope, O Lord u art my trust from my
youth.

71:6 By thee have I been holden up from thou art he that
took me out of my mother’s bowels: my praise shallually of
thee.

71:7 I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my stron
71:8 Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all
t1:9 Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my
strth.

71:10 For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait ftake counsel together,

71:11 Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecuteim; for there
is none to deliver him.

71:12 O God, be not far from me, make haste for my help.

71:13 Let them be confounded and consumed tversaries to my
soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour y
hurt.

71:14 But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee mre.

71:15 My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvati day; for I know not the numbers thereof.

71:16 I will go in the stre Lord GOD: I will make mention
of thy righteousness, even of thine onlO God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I
declaredus works.

71:18 Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsaketil I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power
to  that is to come.

71:19 Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, ne great
things: O God, who is like unto thee!

71:20 Thou, which hast great and sore troubles, shalt
quicken me again, and shalt bring me uom the depths of the
earth.

71:21 Thou shalt increase my greatness, a me on every side.

71:22 I will also praise thee with the psaltery, euth, O my
God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of1:23 My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my
soul,u hast redeemed.

71:24 My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousnessy long:
for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, thathurt.



72:1 Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousnes king’s son.

72:2 He shall judge thy people with righteousness, andh
judgment.

72:3 The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and tle
hills, by righteousness.

72:4 He shall judge the poor of the peopll save the children
of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppres They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure,
throughout aons.

72:6 He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showerer the earth.

72:7 In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abunace
so long as the moon endureth.

72:8 He shall have dominion also frsea, and from the river
unto the ends of the earth.

72:9 They that dw wilderness shall bow before him; and his
enemies shall lick the dust.e kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the
kings od Seba shall offer gifts.

72:11 Yea, all kings shall fall down beforeations shall
serve him.

72:12 For he shall deliver the needy when he e poor also,
and him that hath no helper.

72:13 He shall spare the poy, and shall save the souls of
the needy.

72:14 He shall redeem their deceit and violence: and
precious shall their blood be in his sight.
 he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of
Sheba: prayerl be made for him continually; and daily shall
he be praised.

72:16 T be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of
the mountains; thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of
the city shall flourish likf the earth.

72:17 His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be as
long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shallblessed.

72:18 Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only dus things.

72:19 And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let t
earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.

72:20 The prayers ofe son of Jesse are ended.



73:1 Truly God is good to Israel, even toe of a clean
heart.

73:2 But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my well nigh
slipped.

73:3 For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw rity of
the wicked.

73:4 For there are no bands in their death: but tgth is
firm.

73:5 They are not in trouble as other men; neither are t
like other men.

73:6 Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chaie
covereth them as a garment.

73:7 Their eyes stand out with fatness:more than heart
could wish.

73:8 They are corrupt, and speak wickedlyg oppression: they
speak loftily.

73:9 They set their mouth against t, and their tongue
walketh through the earth.

73:10 Therefore his peohither: and waters of a full cup are
wrung out to them.

73:11 And thedoth God know? and is there knowledge in the
most High?

73:12 Behold, the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they
increase in riches.

73:1 have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in
innocency.

73l the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every
morning.

73:1 I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the
generation of ren.

73:16 When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;

7 I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their
end.

73:18ou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst
them down into des
73:19 How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are
nsumed with terrors.

73:20 As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, wakest, thou
shalt despise their image.

73:21 Thus my heart was grieves pricked in my reins.

73:22 So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was asore thee.

73:23 Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast homy right hand.

73:24 Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterwe me
to glory.

73:25 Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is nonh
that I desire beside thee.

73:26 My flesh and my heart faileth: buthe strength of my
heart, and my portion for ever.

73:27 For, lo, theyar from thee shall perish: thou hast
destroyed all them that go a whorhee.

73:28 But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my t Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.



74:1 O God, why hast t off for ever? why doth thine anger
smoke against the sheep of thy pas2 Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the
rodinheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion,
wherein thou h.

74:3 Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all thatth done wickedly in the sanctuary.

74:4 Thine enemies roar in the midcongregations; they set up
their ensigns for signs.

74:5 A man was farding as he had lifted up axes upon the
thick trees.

74:6 But now thewn the carved work thereof at once with axes
and hammers.

74:7 They hire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by
casting down the dwellinghy name to the ground.

74:8 They said in their hearts, Let us destroyther: they
have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.

74:9 our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is
there among us aneth how long.

74:10 O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shay
blaspheme thy name for ever?

74:11 Why withdrawest thou thy hand, eght hand? pluck it out
of thy bosom.

74:12 For God is my King of old,lvation in the midst of the
earth.

74:13 Thou didst divide the sea bygth: thou brakest the
heads of the dragons in the waters.

74:14 Thou  heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to
be meat to the peopleg the wilderness.

74:15 Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood:dst up
mighty rivers.

74:16 The day is thine, the night also is thinet prepared
the light and the sun.

74:17 Thou hast set all the bordersrth: thou hast made
summer and winter.

74:18 Remember this, that the h reproached, O LORD, and that
the foolish people have blasphemed thy 19 O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of
the rget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

74:20 Have respect unenant: for the dark places of the earth
are full of the habitations of74:21 O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy
pname.

74:22 Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the fooreproacheth thee daily.

74:23 Forget not the voice of thine enemies: of those that
rise up against thee increaseth continually.



75:1 Untod, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks:
for that thy name hy wondrous works declare.

75:2 When I shall receive the congregationdge uprightly.

75:3 The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are disbear
up the pillars of it. Selah.

75:4 I said unto the fools, Deal no: and to the wicked,
Lift not up the horn:

75:5 Lift not up your hornpeak not with a stiff neck.

75:6 For promotion cometh neither from thr from the west,
nor from the south.

75:7 But God is the judge: he puone, and setteth up
another.

75:8 For in the hand of the LORD there iand the wine is red;
it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the the dregs
thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, athem.

75:9 But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the Go.

75:10 All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the hornghteous shall be exalted.



76:1 In Judah is God known: his name is grael.

76:2 In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in3 There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword,
andle. Selah.

76:4 Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountai76:5 The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and
none of the men of might have found their hands.

76:6 At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are
cast into a dead sleep.

76:7 Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight
when once thou art angry?

76:8 Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth
feared, and was still,

76:9 When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth.
Selah.

76:10 Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of
wrath shalt thou restrain.

76:11 Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about
him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.

76:12 He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the
kings of th.



77:1 I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voicgave ear unto me.

77:2 In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: myn the
night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.

77:3 I  God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit
was overwhelmed. S Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot
speak.
onsidered the days of old, the years of ancient times.

77:6 I call toy song in the night: I commune with mine
own heart: and my spirit madesearch.

77:7 Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourabe?

77:8 Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for
e
77:9 Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his
cies? Selah.

77:10 And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will rememrs
of the right hand of the most High.

77:11 I will remember the workLORD: surely I will remember
thy wonders of old.

77:12 I will meditat all thy work, and talk of thy doings.

77:13 Thy way, O God, is in thry: who is so great a God as
our God?

77:14 Thou art the God that doe: thou hast declared thy
strength among the people.

77:15 Thou hast warm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob
and Joseph. Selah.

77:16 T saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were
afraid: the depths aloubled.

77:17 The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a soundrrows also went abroad.

77:18 The voice of thy thunder was in the heaghtnings
lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.

77:19 Thy the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy
footsteps are not :20 Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and
Aaro Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words
of m78:2 I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of
o Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.

78:4 Wehide them from their children, shewing to the
generation to come the pthe LORD, and his strength, and his
wonderful works that he hath done. he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in
Israel, wommanded our fathers, that they should make them
known to their childr That the generation to come might know them, even the children
which orn; who should arise and declare them to their
children:

78:7 That tset their hope in God, and not forget the works
of God, but keep his cts:

78:8 And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebelliousion; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose
spirit wafast with God.

78:9 The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carryinned
back in the day of battle.

78:10 They kept not the covenant of Goused to walk in his
law;

78:11 And forgat his works, and his wonders  shewed them.

78:12 Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathe
land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.

78:13 He divided the sea, anhem to pass through; and he made
the waters to stand as an heap.

78:1aytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night
with a light o8:15 He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out
great depths.

78:16 He brought streams also out of the rock, and causto
run down like rivers.

78:17 And they sinned yet more against him b the most High
in the wilderness.

78:18 And they tempted God in theirasking meat for their
lust.

78:19 Yea, they spake against God; they sod furnish a table
in the wilderness?

78:20 Behold, he smote the rock waters gushed out, and the
streams overflowed; can he give bread alsorovide flesh for
his people?

78:21 Therefore the LORD heard this, andoth: so a fire was
kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up again;

78:22 Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his
salv23 Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the
doorsn,

78:24 And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given thcorn of heaven.

78:25 Man did eat angels’ food: he sent them meat t

78:26 He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his powert in the south wind.

78:27 He rained flesh also upon them as dust, an fowls like
as the sand of the sea:

78:28 And he let it fall in the meir camp, round about their
habitations.

78:29 So they did eat, and willed: for he gave them their
own desire;

78:30 They were not estrangheir lust. But while their meat
was yet in their mouths,

78:31 The wr came upon them, and slew the fattest of them,
and smote down the chos Israel.

78:32 For all this they sinned still, and believed not for hus works.

78:33 Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and thuble.

78:34 When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returneired early after God.

78:35 And they remembered that God was their roe high God
their redeemer.

78:36 Nevertheless they did flatter him wiuth, and they
lied unto him with their tongues.

78:37 For their heartight with him, neither were they
stedfast in his covenant.

78:38 But ull of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and
destroyed them not: yeaime turned he his anger away, and did
not stir up all his wrath.

78:3membered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth
away, and cometn.

78:40 How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve h desert!

78:41 Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited theof Israel.

78:42 They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he deem
from the enemy.

78:43 How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and hs in the
field of Zoan.

78:44 And had turned their rivers into blood; floods, that
they could not drink.

78:45 He sent divers sorts of flihem, which devoured them;
and frogs, which destroyed them.

78:46 He gheir increase unto the caterpiller, and their
labour unto the locust.
destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees
with frost.
 gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to
hot thunde8:49 He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and
indignarouble, by sending evil angels among them.

78:50 He made a way to hisspared not their soul from death,
but gave their life over to the pest78:51 And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their
strengtabernacles of Ham:

78:52 But made his own people to go forth like sheided them
in the wilderness like a flock.

78:53 And he led them on saat they feared not: but the sea
overwhelmed their enemies.

78:54 And t them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this
mountain, which hind had purchased.

78:55 He cast out the heathen also before them, andhem an
inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in s.

78:56 Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept nostimonies:

78:57 But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fthey
were turned aside like a deceitful bow.

78:58 For they provoked er with their high places, and moved
him to jealousy with their graven8:59 When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:

that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he
placed amo8:61 And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into
the hand.

78:62 He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wros inheritance.

78:63 The fire consumed their young men; and their mait
given to marriage.

78:64 Their priests fell by the sword; and theirade no
lamentation.

78:65 Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, aighty man
that shouteth by reason of wine.

78:66 And he smote his enee hinder parts: he put them to a
perpetual reproach.

78:67 Moreover hthe tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the
tribe of Ephraim:

78:68 Bhe tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.

78:69 And he built ary like high palaces, like the earth
which he hath established for evHe chose David also his servant, and took him from the
sheepfolds:

78llowing the ewes great with young he brought him to feed
Jacob his peosrael his inheritance.

78:72 So he fed them according to the integritart; and
guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.



79:1 O God, tare come into thine inheritance; thy holy
temple have they defiled; thd Jerusalem on heaps.

79:2 The dead bodies of thy servants have they e meat unto
the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the 
the earth.

79:3 Their blood have they shed like water round about Jed
there was none to bury them.

79:4 We are become a reproach to our n a scorn and derision
to them that are round about us.

79:5 How long,thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy
burn like fire?

79:6 Pour rath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and
upon the kingdoms ot called upon thy name.

79:7 For they have devoured Jacob, and laid dwelling place.

79:8 O remember not against us former iniquities: letcies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.

79:9 Help us, salvation, for the glory of thy name: and
deliver us, and purge away oor thy name’s sake.

79:10 Wherefore should the heathen say, Where id? let him be
known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging ofof
thy servants which is shed.

79:11 Let the sighing of the prisoner re thee; according to
the greatness of thy power preserve thou those tointed to
die;

79:12 And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into ththeir
reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.

79:13 Soeople and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks
for ever: we willh thy praise to all generations.



80:1 Give ear, O Shepherd of Israehat leadest Joseph like a
flock; thou that dwellest between the cherub forth.

80:2 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strcome and save us.

80:3 Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to she shall
be saved.

80:4 O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angt the
prayer of thy people?

80:5 Thou feedest them with the bread of  givest them tears
to drink in great measure.

80:6 Thou makest us a s our neighbours: and our enemies
laugh among themselves.

80:7 Turn usGod of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and
we shall be saved.

80:t brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the
heathen, and pla
80:9 Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep
it filled the land.

80:10 The hills were covered with the shadow of iboughs
thereof were like the goodly cedars.

80:11 She sent out her bothe sea, and her branches unto the
river.

80:12 Why hast thou then br her hedges, so that all they
which pass by the way do pluck her?

80:ar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of
the field doth

80:14 Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heavenld, and visit this vine;

80:15 And the vineyard which thy right hand ed, and the
branch that thou madest strong for thyself.

80:16 It is b fire, it is cut down: they perish at the
rebuke of thy countenance.

thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of
man whom ttrong for thyself.

80:18 So will not we go back from thee: quicken usill call
upon thy name.

80:19 Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, caue to shine; and
we shall be saved.



81:1 Sing aloud unto God our str a joyful noise unto the
God of Jacob.

81:2 Take a psalm, and bring hmbrel, the pleasant harp
with the psaltery.

81:3 Blow up the trumpet  moon, in the time appointed, on
our solemn feast day.

81:4 For this ute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.

81:5 This he ordained or a testimony, when he went out
through the land of Egypt: where I heuage that I understood
not.

81:6 I removed his shoulder from the burdands were delivered
from the pots.

81:7 Thou calledst in trouble, anded thee; I answered thee
in the secret place of thunder: I proved theeaters of
Meribah.

Selah.

81:8 Hear, O my people, and I will testify  O Israel, if
thou wilt hearken unto me;

81:9 There shall no strange  thee; neither shalt thou worship
any strange god.

81:10 I am the LOR which brought thee out of the land of
Egypt: open thy mouth wide, andll it.

81:11 But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel  of me.

81:12 So I gave them up unto their own hearts’ lust: and th their own counsels.

81:13 Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, aad walked
in my ways!

81:14 I should soon have subdued their enemies,ed my hand
against their adversaries.

81:15 The haters of the LORD shubmitted themselves unto
him: but their time should have endured for e He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and
with hf the rock should I have satisfied thee.



82:1 God standeth in the c of the mighty; he judgeth among
the gods.

82:2 How long will ye judg and accept the persons of the
wicked? Selah.

82:3 Defend the poor ans: do justice to the afflicted and
needy.

82:4 Deliver the poor and nthem out of the hand of the
wicked.

82:5 They know not, neither will tand; they walk on in
darkness: all the foundations of the earth are ose.

82:6 I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of theut ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.

82:8 Aris judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all
nations.



83:1 Keep notce, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not
still, O God.

83:2 For, lo,mies make a tumult: and they that hate thee
have lifted up the head.

have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted
against thes.

83:4 They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a
nhat the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.

83:5 For they hted together with one consent: they are
confederate against thee:

83:rnacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the
Hagarenes;

83:d Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the
inhabitants of Tyre;

83lso is joined with them: they have holpen the children of
Lot.

Selah.nto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin,
at the bron:

83:10 Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.
e their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their
princes as Zebs Zalmunna:

83:12 Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of Gosession.

83:13 O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble befor.

83:14 As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the
mounfire;

83:15 So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid torm.

83:16 Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name,83:17 Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be
pe, and perish:

83:18 That men may know that thou, whose name alone isart
the most high over all the earth.



84:1 How amiable are thy tabeORD of hosts!

84:2 My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courtsORD:
my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.

84:3 Yea, t hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for
herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O LORD of
hosts, my King, and my G
84:4 Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still
pra Selah.

84:5 Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose hhe ways of them.

84:6 Who passing through the valley of Baca make it e rain
also filleth the pools.

84:7 They go from strength to strengthe of them in Zion
appeareth before God.

84:8 O LORD God of hosts, heaer: give ear, O God of Jacob.
Selah.

84:9 Behold, O God our shield, an the face of thine
anointed.

84:10 For a day in thy courts is betterousand. I had rather
be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dhe tents of
wickedness.

84:11 For the LORD God is a sun and shield: tll give grace
and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them thattly.

84:12 O LORD of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought
back vity of Jacob.

85:2 Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered
all their sin. Selah.

85:3 Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from
the fierceness of thine anger.

85:4 Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us
to cease.

85:5 Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine
anger to all generations?

85:6 Wilt thou not revive us agaithy people may rejoice in
thee?

85:7 Shew us thy mercy, O LORD, and gy salvation.

85:8 I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he wieace
unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again t85:9 Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may
dr land.

85:10 Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peassed each other.

85:11 Truth shall spring out of the earth; and rightshall
look down from heaven.

85:12 Yea, the LORD shall give that whic and our land shall
yield her increase.

85:13 Righteousness shall go m; and shall set us in the way
of his steps.



86:1 Bow down thine ea, hear me: for I am poor and needy.

86:2 Preserve my soul; for I am h my God, save thy servant
that trusteth in thee.

86:3 Be merciful untrd: for I cry unto thee daily.

86:4 Rejoice the soul of thy servant: ee, O Lord, do I lift
up my soul.

86:5 For thou, Lord, art good, and orgive; and plenteous in
mercy unto all them that call upon thee.

86:RD, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my
supplications.

86:7f my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt
answer me.

86:8 Amos there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are
there any works liy works.

86:9 All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship , O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.

86:10 For thou art great, and dus things: thou art God
alone.

86:11 Teach me thy way, O LORD; I willhy truth: unite my
heart to fear thy name.

86:12 I will praise thee, God, with all my heart: and I will
glorify thy name for evermore.

86:at is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my
soul from the lol.

86:14 O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies ofen have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before
them.

86:1, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious,
long suffering, ous in mercy and truth.

86:16 O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me;trength unto
thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.

86:17 Sken for good; that they which hate me may see it,
and be ashamed: becaORD, hast holpen me, and comforted me.



87:1 His foundation is in thntains.

87:2 The LORD loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwelacob.

87:3 Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Selah.
l make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me:
behold PhiliTyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.

87:5 And of Zion it shad, This and that man was born in her:
and the highest himself shall es.

87:6 The LORD shall count, when he writeth up the people, that thisorn there. Selah.

87:7 As well the singers as the players on instrumebe there:
all my springs are in thee.



88:1 O lord God of my salvati cried day and night before
thee:

88:2 Let my prayer come before theethine ear unto my cry;

88:3 For my soul is full of troubles: and my lth nigh unto
the grave.

88:4 I am counted with them that go down intoI am as a man
that hath no strength:

88:5 Free among the dead, like tthat lie in the grave, whom
thou rememberest no more: and they are cutthy hand.

88:6 Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in t
88:7 Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with als. Selah.

88:8 Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou
me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.

eye mourneth by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called
daily upon te stretched out my hands unto thee.

88:10 Wilt thou shew wonders to tall the dead arise and
praise thee? Selah.

88:11 Shall thy lovingkindclared in the grave? or thy
faithfulness in destruction?

88:12 Shall s be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in
the land of forgetful13 But unto thee have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my
prat thee.

88:14 LORD, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thyme?

88:15 I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I sterrors I am distracted.

88:16 Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy te cut me off.

88:17 They came round about me daily like water; they co
about together.

88:18 Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, anuaintance into darkness.



89:1 I will sing of the mercies of the LOR: with my mouth
will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations. I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy
faithfulness shaltblish in the very heavens.

89:3 I have made a covenant with my chosenorn unto David my
servant,

89:4 Thy seed will I establish for ever, a thy throne to
all generations. Selah.

89:5 And the heavens shall pranders, O LORD: thy
faithfulness also in the congregation of the saintsor who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? who among
the sonsghty can be likened unto the LORD?

89:7 God is greatly to be feared imbly of the saints, and to
be had in reverence of all them that are ab
89:8 O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like unto thee? or to
ulness round about thee?

89:9 Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when thereof arise,
thou stillest them.

89:10 Thou hast broken Rahab in p one that is slain; thou
hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong 1 The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world
andof, thou hast founded them.

89:12 The north and the south thou hast c them: Tabor and Hermon
shall rejoice in thy name.

89:13 Thou hast a : strong is thy hand, and high is thy
right hand.

89:14 Justice and je the habitation of thy throne: mercy and
truth shall go before thy fa Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall
walk, O he light of thy countenance.

89:16 In thy name shall they rejoice alland in thy
righteousness shall they be exalted.

89:17 For thou art thheir strength: and in thy favour our
horn shall be exalted.

89:18 For is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our
king.

89:19 Then tt in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have
laid help upon one tha; I have exalted one chosen out of
the people.

89:20 I have found Davant; with my holy oil have I anointed
him:

89:21 With whom my hand shblished: mine arm also shall
strengthen him.

89:22 The enemy shall noon him; nor the son of wickedness
afflict him.

89:23 And I will beat es before his face, and plague them
that hate him.

89:24 But my faithd my mercy shall be with him: and in my
name shall his horn be exaltedI will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the
rivers. shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock
of my sal9:27 Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the
e28 My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall
stwith him.

89:29 His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and histhe days of heaven.

89:30 If his children forsake my law, and walk noudgments;

89:31 If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandmen Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their
iniquitipes.

89:33 Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take frsuffer my faithfulness to fail.

89:34 My covenant will I not break, n the thing that is gone
out of my lips.

89:35 Once have I sworn by mythat I will not lie unto David.

89:36 His seed shall endure for ever,hrone as the sun before
me.

89:37 It shall be established for ever as and as a faithful
witness in heaven. Selah.

89:38 But thou hast castabhorred, thou hast been wroth with
thine anointed.

89:39 Thou hast mhe covenant of thy servant: thou hast
profaned his crown by casting itound.

89:40 Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought holds to ruin.

89:41 All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a repro
neighbours.

89:42 Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries
made all his enemies to rejoice.

89:43 Thou hast also turned the edgord, and hast not made
him to stand in the battle.

89:44 Thou hast maory to cease, and cast his throne down to
the ground.

89:45 The days th hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him
with shame. Selah.

89:4, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath
burn like firRemember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men
in vai What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he
deliverrom the hand of the grave? Selah.

89:49 Lord, where are thy former loesses, which thou swarest
unto David in thy truth?

89:50 Remember, Loproach of thy servants; how I do bear in
my bosom the reproach of all  people;

89:51 Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; where
have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.

89:52 Blessed be th evermore. Amen, and Amen.



90:1 Lord, thou hast been our dwelling pl generations.

90:2 Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever t
formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlastingt God.

90:3 Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye cmen.

90:4 For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday whenast, and as a watch in the night.

90:5 Thou carriest them away as wit they are as a sleep: in
the morning they are like grass which groweth6 In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it
is nd withereth.

90:7 For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wra
troubled.

90:8 Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret e
light of thy countenance.

90:9 For all our days are passed away in spend our years
as a tale that is told.

90:10 The days of our years a years and ten; and if by
reason of strength they be fourscore years, r strength
labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.o knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy
fear, so is .

90:12 So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts
m.

90:13 Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning nts.

90:14 O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice andll our days.

90:15 Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hated
us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.

90:16 Let thy work a thy servants, and thy glory unto their
children.

90:17 And let the bhe LORD our God be upon us: and establish
thou the work of our hands ua, the work of our hands
establish thou it.



91:1 He that dwelleth iet place of the most High shall abide
under the shadow of the Almighty will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God;
in himrust.

91:3 Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler,the noisome pestilence.

91:4 He shall cover thee with his feathers, ahis wings shalt
thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.u shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the
arrow that  day;

91:6 Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for ton that wasteth at noonday.

91:7 A thousand shall fall at thy side, ausand at thy right
hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.

91:8 Only weyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the
wicked.

91:9 Because made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the
most High, thy habitationhere shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come
nigh thy
91:11 For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in
ays.

91:12 They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thynst a stone.

91:13 Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the younthe
dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

91:14 Because he hath set hn me, therefore will I deliver
him: I will set him on high, because hen my name.

91:15 He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I willim
in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.

91:16 With long li satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.



92:1 It is a good thing tos unto the Lord, and to sing
praises unto thy name, O most High:

92:2forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy
faithfulness every ni3 Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon
the h solemn sound.

92:4 For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy wortriumph in the works of thy hands.

92:5 O LORD, how great are thy worhy thoughts are very deep.

92:6 A brutish man knoweth not; neither do understand this.

92:7 When the wicked spring as the grass, and when rkers of
iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for :8 But thou, LORD, art most high for evermore.

92:9 For, lo, thine enRD, for, lo, thine enemies shall
perish; all the workers of iniquity scattered.

92:10 But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicll be anointed with fresh oil.

92:11 Mine eye also shall see my desirenemies, and mine ears
shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up me.

92:12 The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall  a cedar in Lebanon.

92:13 Those that be planted in the house of the l flourish in
the courts of our God.

92:14 They shall still bring forin old age; they shall be fat
and flourishing;

92:15 To shew that thepright: he is my rock, and there is no
unrighteousness in him.



93:1reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the LORD is
clothed with strengtth he hath girded himself: the world
also is stablished, that it canno.

93:2 Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting.

loods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up
their voice; tlift up their waves.

93:4 The LORD on high is mightier than the noiseaters, yea,
than the mighty waves of the sea.

93:5 Thy testimonies are: holiness becometh thine house, O
LORD, for ever.



94:1 O Lord Godengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance
belongeth, shew thyself.
 up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the
proud.

9g shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked
triumph?

94:4 How long hey utter and speak hard things? and all the
workers of iniquity boasts?

94:5 They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine
he:6 They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.

9ey say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of
Jacob regard  Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will
ye b4:9 He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the
eyee not see?

94:10 He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct
teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?

94:11 The LORD knoweth ths of man, that they are vanity.

94:12 Blessed is the man whom thou ch O LORD, and teachest
him out of thy law;

94:13 That thou mayest givefrom the days of adversity, until
the pit be digged for the wicked.

9e LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he
forsake his inher4:15 But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the
upright shall follow it.

94:16 Who will rise up for me against the evildoersll stand
up for me against the workers of iniquity?

94:17 Unless the een my help, my soul had almost dwelt in
silence.

94:18 When I said, ippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up.

94:19 In the multitude of my tthin me thy comforts delight
my soul.

94:20 Shall the throne of iniquellowship with thee, which
frameth mischief by a law?

94:21 They gathes together against the soul of the
righteous, and condemn the innocen94:22 But the LORD is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge.d he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut
them off wn wickedness; yea, the LORD our God shall cut them
off.



95:1 O coming unto the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to
the rock of our salva:2 Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a
joyfuto him with psalms.

95:3 For the LORD is a great God, and a great Kinl gods.

95:4 In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strenghills is his also.

95:5 The sea is his, and he made it: and his handse dry
land.

95:6 O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel beD
our maker.

95:7 For he is our God; and we are the people of his pas the
sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,

95:8 Hardenheart, as in the provocation, and as in the day
of temptation in the w

95:9 When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.

95:1ears long was I grieved with this generation, and said,
It is a peopler in their heart, and they have not known my
ways:

95:11 Unto whom I y wrath that they should not enter into my
rest.



96:1 O sing unto tnew song: sing unto the LORD, all the
earth.

96:2 Sing unto the LORD,s name; shew forth his salvation from
day to day.

96:3 Declare his glthe heathen, his wonders among all
people.

96:4 For the LORD is greatatly to be praised: he is to be
feared above all gods.

96:5 For all the nations are idols: but the LORD made the
heavens.

96:6 Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his
sanctuary.

96:7 Give unto the LORD, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
LORD glory and strength.

96:8 Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an
offering, and come into his courts.

96:9 O worship the L in the beauty of holiness: fear before him,
all the earth.

96:10 Sayheathen that the LORD reigneth: the world also
shall be established thl not be moved: he shall judge the
people righteously.

96:11 Let the oice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea
roar, and the fulness the2 Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all
the the wood rejoice

96:13 Before the LORD: for he cometh, for he comethhe
earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people
ruth.



97:1 The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multits be glad thereof.

97:2 Clouds and darkness are round about him: righnd
judgment are the habitation of his throne.

97:3 A fire goeth befor burneth up his enemies round about.

97:4 His lightnings enlightened the earth saw, and
trembled.

97:5 The hills melted like wax at the prRD, at the
presence of the Lord of the whole earth.

97:6 The heavens ighteousness, and all the people see his
glory.

97:7 Confounded be alat serve graven images, that boast
themselves of idols: worship him, a.

97:8 Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced
 thy judgments, O LORD.

97:9 For thou, LORD, art high above all the e art exalted
far above all gods.

97:10 Ye that love the LORD, hate everveth the souls of his
saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of .

97:11 Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright

97:12 Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the
reme his holiness.



98:1 O sing unto the LORD a new song; for he hath doous
things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the vict The LORD hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he
ope in the sight of the heathen.

98:3 He hath remembered his mercy and howard the house of
Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salour God.

98:4 Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all the earth: make se, and rejoice, and sing praise.

98:5 Sing unto the LORD with the hahe harp, and the voice of
a psalm.

98:6 With trumpets and sound of co joyful noise before the
LORD, the King.

98:7 Let the sea roar, and t thereof; the world, and they
that dwell therein.

98:8 Let the floodsr hands: let the hills be joyful together

98:9 Before the LORD; for ho judge the earth: with
righteousness shall he judge the world, and thith equity.



99:1 The LORD reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitten the
cherubims; let the earth be moved.

99:2 The LORD is great in Z is high above all the people.

99:3 Let them praise thy great and ter; for it is holy.

99:4 The king’s strength also loveth judgment; thtablish
equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob.

9ye the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool; for he
is holy.

99nd Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that
call upon his ncalled upon the LORD, and he answered them.

99:7 He spake unto them idy pillar: they kept his
testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave t Thou answeredst them, O LORD our God: thou wast a God that
forgavest though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions.

99:9 Exalt the LOR and worship at his holy hill; for the
LORD our God is holy.



100:1 ful noise unto the LORD, all ye lands.

100:2 Serve the LORD with gladbefore his presence with
singing.

100:3 Know ye that the LORD he is Ghe that hath made us, and
not we ourselves; we are his people, and thehis pasture.

100:4 Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into hwith
praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.

100:5 For the od; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth
endureth to all generation1 I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O LORD, will I
sing.

ll behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou
come unto mwalk within my house with a perfect heart.

101:3 I will set no wickedore mine eyes: I hate the work of
them that turn aside; it shall not ce.

101:4 A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wick

101:5 Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: hi an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.

101:6 Mine eyes sh the faithful of the land, that they may
dwell with me: he that walketfect way, he shall serve me.

101:7 He that worketh deceit shall not din my house: he that
telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.

101:8 ly destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut
off all wicked dthe city of the LORD.



102:1 Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry thee.

102:2 Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in troublethine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.

102:3 Fs are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as
an hearth.

102: is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget
to eat my bread reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my
skin.

102:6 a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the
desert.

102:7 Id am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.

102:8 Mine enemies reproathe day; and they that are mad
against me are sworn against me.

102:9hes like bread, and mingled my drink with
weeping.

102:10 Because of ndignation and thy wrath: for thou hast
lifted me up, and cast me down My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered
like gras But thou, O LORD, shall endure for ever; and thy remembrance
unto allns.

102:13 Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time ther, yea, the set time, is come.

102:14 For thy servants take pleasurtones, and favour the
dust thereof.

102:15 So the heathen shall fear of the LORD, and all the
kings of the earth thy glory.

102:16 When thl build up Zion, he shall appear in his
glory.

102:17 He will regard of the destitute, and not despise
their prayer.

102:18 This shall be r the generation to come: and the
people which shall be created shall  LORD.

102:19 For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuar
heaven did the LORD behold the earth;

102:20 To hear the groaning ofner; to loose those that are
appointed to death;

102:21 To declare th the LORD in Zion, and his praise in
Jerusalem;

102:22 When the peoplered together, and the kingdoms, to
serve the LORD.

102:23 He weakenegth in the way; he shortened my days.

102:24 I said, O my God, take min the midst of my days: thy
years are throughout all generations.

10 hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the
heavens are the w hands.

102:26 They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and
they anged:

102:27 But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.e children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed
shall be estbefore thee.



103:1 Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is withiss his
holy name.

103:2 Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not allts:

103:3 Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy
dis3:4 Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with
loss and tender mercies;

103:5 Who satisfieth thy mouth with good thingt thy youth is
renewed like the eagle’s.

103:6 The LORD executeth rs and judgment for all that are
oppressed.

103:7 He made known his wases, his acts unto the children of
Israel.

103:8 The LORD is mercifulous, slow to anger, and plenteous
in mercy.

103:9 He will not always her will he keep his anger for
ever.

103:10 He hath not dealt with ussins; nor rewarded us
according to our iniquities.

103:11 For as the high above the earth, so great is his
mercy toward them that fear him.s far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our
transgrrom us.

103:13 Like as a father pitieth his children, so the LORD pitthat fear him.

103:14 For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that w.

103:15 As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field,urisheth.

103:16 For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and threof shall know it no more.

103:17 But the mercy of the LORD is from ng to everlasting
upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto s
children;

103:18 To such as keep his covenant, and to those that is
commandments to do them.

103:19 The LORD hath prepared his throne eavens; and his
kingdom ruleth over all.

103:20 Bless the LORD, ye hithat excel in strength, that do
his commandments, hearkening unto the s word.

103:21 Bless ye the LORD, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of ho his pleasure.

103:22 Bless the LORD, all his works in all places ofion:
bless the LORD, O my soul.



104:1 Bless the LORD, O my soul. O , thou art very great;
thou art clothed with honour and majesty.

104:est thyself with light as with a garment: who
stretchest out the heaveurtain:

104:3 Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: whoe clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:

104:4 W his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:

104:5 Who laid thens of the earth, that it should not be
removed for ever.

104:6 Thou cit with the deep as with a garment: the waters
stood above the mountai7 At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted
awaThey go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto
the placast founded for them.

104:9 Thou hast set a bound that they may not pt they
turn not again to cover the earth.

104:10 He sendeth the sprine valleys, which run among the
hills.

104:11 They give drink to every the field: the wild asses
quench their thirst.

104:12 By them shall f the heaven have their habitation,
which sing among the branches.

10tereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied
with the frworks.

104:14 He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb fvice of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;

104:15 Ant maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his
face to shine, andh strengtheneth man’s heart.

104:16 The trees of the LORD are full he cedars of Lebanon,
which he hath planted;

104:17 Where the birds mnests: as for the stork, the fir
trees are her house.

104:18 The highe a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks
for the conies.

104:19 H the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going
down.

104:20 Thou maess, and it is night: wherein all the beasts
of the forest do creep fo1 The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from
God.The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them
down inns.

104:23 Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the
104:24 O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made
the earth is full of thy riches.

104:25 So is this great and wide sea, re things creeping
innumerable, both small and great beasts.

104:26 Te ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast
made to play therein.hese wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat
in due 04:28 That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand,
theyd with good.

104:29 Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takeir
breath, they die, and return to their dust.

104:30 Thou sendest frit, they are created: and thou
renewest the face of the earth.

104:3y of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall
rejoice in his wor2 He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the
hills, anke.

104:33 I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing py God while I have my being.

104:34 My meditation of him shall be swe be glad in the
LORD.

104:35 Let the sinners be consumed out of the e let the
wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye 



105:1 O give thanks unto the LORD; call upon his name: make known among the people.

105:2 Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye s wondrous
works.

105:3 Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of tce that
seek the LORD.

105:4 Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek hivermore.

105:5 Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wd the judgments of his mouth;

105:6 O ye seed of Abraham his servant,ren of Jacob his
chosen.

105:7 He is the LORD our God: his judgments  the earth.

105:8 He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word ommanded to a thousand generations.

105:9 Which covenant he made with and his oath unto Isaac;

105:10 And confirmed the same unto Jacob fond to Israel for
an everlasting covenant:

105:11 Saying, Unto thee withe land of Canaan, the lot of
your inheritance:

105:12 When they wer men in number; yea, very few, and
strangers in it.

105:13 When they  one nation to another, from one kingdom to
another people;

105:14 Heno man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for
their sakes;

105:Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

105:16 Moreover for a famine upon the land: he brake the
whole staff of bread.

105:17 man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a
servant:

105:18 Whohey hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:

105:19 Until the time thacame: the word of the LORD tried
him.

105:20 The king sent and loosed the ruler of the people, and
let him go free.

105:21 He made him lorouse, and ruler of all his substance:

105:22 To bind his princes at hre; and teach his senators
wisdom.

105:23 Israel also came into Egypt sojourned in the land of
Ham.

105:24 And he increased his people gremade them stronger
than their enemies.

105:25 He turned their heart t people, to deal subtilly with
his servants.

105:26 He sent Moses his whom he had chosen.

105:27 They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of
Ham.

105:28 He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not
against his word.

105:29 He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.

105:30 Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of
their kings.

105:31 He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all
their coasts.

105:3 He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.

105:33 Hheir vines also and their fig trees; and brake the
trees of their coas34 He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that
without 

105:35 And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the
heir ground.

105:36 He smote also all the firstborn in their land, th all
their strength.

105:37 He brought them forth also with silver annd there was
not one feeble person among their tribes.

105:38 Egypt wn they departed: for the fear of them fell
upon them.

105:39 He spreaor a covering; and fire to give light in the
night.

105:40 The people he brought quails, and satisfied them
with the bread of heaven.

105:ed the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the
dry places lik river.

105:42 For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his se5:43 And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with
gla44 And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the
labo people;

105:45 That they might observe his statutes, and keep his la
ye the LORD.



106:1 Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD good:
for his mercy endureth for ever.

106:2 Who can utter the mightthe LORD? who can shew forth
all his praise?

106:3 Blessed are they tdgment, and he that doeth
righteousness at all times.

106:4 Remember , with the favour that thou bearest unto thy
people: O visit me with tn;

106:5 That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice iness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.

106:6 We  with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we
have done wickedly.
r fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered
not theof thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at
the Red sea.

106eless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might
make his migh be known.

106:9 He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: sohem
through the depths, as through the wilderness.

106:10 And he savem the hand of him that hated them, and
redeemed them from the hand of 

106:11 And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of th06:12 Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.

106:13 Theyat his works; they waited not for his counsel:

106:14 But lusted excengly in the wilderness, and tempted God in
the desert.

106:15 And he their request; but sent leanness into their
soul.

106:16 They envied in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the
LORD.

106:17 The earth openedlowed up Dathan and covered the
company of Abiram.

106:18 And a fire  in their company; the flame burned up
the wicked.

106:19 They made ain Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.

106:20 Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that
eateth grass.

106:21 They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in
Egypt;

106:22 Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the
Red sea.

106:23 Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Mos his
chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, leld destroy them.

106:24 Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they bet his
word:

106:25 But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unte
of the LORD.

106:26 Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, tw them
in the wilderness:

106:27 To overthrow their seed also among t and to scatter
them in the lands.

106:28 They joined themselves alsopeor, and ate the
sacrifices of the dead.

106:29 Thus they provoked hr with their inventions: and the
plague brake in upon them.

106:30 Thp Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the
plague was stayed.

106:t was counted unto him for righteousness unto all
generations for everhey angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went
ill with sakes:

106:33 Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake una
with his lips.

106:34 They did not destroy the nations, concerning wLORD
commanded them:

106:35 But were mingled among the heathen, and lir works.

106:36 And they served their idols: which were a snare unto06:37 Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto
devils,d shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of
their daugh they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and
the land was polluted w

106:39 Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoriir own inventions.

106:40 Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindledis people,
insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.

106:41 And m into the hand of the heathen; and they that
hated them ruled over th Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into
subjecteir hand.

106:43 Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked hieir counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.

106:44 Neverthegarded their affliction, when he heard their
cry:

106:45 And he rememthem his covenant, and repented according
to the multitude of his merc46 He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them
capti47 Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen,
to gunto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.

106:48 Blessed be tod of Israel from everlasting to
everlasting: and let all the people sPraise ye the LORD.



107:1 O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is gos mercy
endureth for ever.

107:2 Let the redeemed of the LORD say so,hath redeemed from
the hand of the enemy;

107:3 And gathered them outnds, from the east, and from the
west, from the north, and from the so:4 They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no
cil in.

107:5 Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.

107:6 Thied unto the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered
them out of their.

107:7 And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go tohabitation.

107:8 Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness,s
wonderful works to the children of men!

107:9 For he satisfieth theul, and filleth the hungry soul
with goodness.

107:10 Such as sit in nd in the shadow of death, being bound
in affliction and iron;

107:11ey rebelled against the words of God, and contemned
the counsel of the:

107:12 Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell there was none to help.

107:13 Then they cried unto the LORD in theiand he saved
them out of their distresses.

107:14 He brought them outs and the shadow of death, and
brake their bands in sunder.

107:15 Ohwould praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his
wonderful works toren of men!

107:16 For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut theon
in sunder.

107:17 Fools because of their transgression, and becaus
iniquities, are afflicted.

107:18 Their soul abhorreth all manner ofd they draw near
unto the gates of death.

107:19 Then they cry unto t their trouble, and he saveth
them out of their distresses.

107:20 Heord, and healed them, and delivered them from
their destructions.

107 men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his
wonderful worhildren of men!

107:22 And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thankand
declare his works with rejoicing.

107:23 They that go down to thes, that do business in
great waters;

107:24 These see the works of thd his wonders in the deep.

107:25 For he commandeth, and raiseth the d, which lifteth
up the waves thereof.

107:26 They mount up to the he go down again to the depths:
their soul is melted because of trouble.hey reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are
at their d.

107:28 Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringem out of their distresses.

107:29 He maketh the storm a calm, so thats thereof are
still.

107:30 Then are they glad because they be quiet;ingeth them
unto their desired haven.

107:31 Oh that men would praisefor his goodness, and for his
wonderful works to the children of men!
t them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and
praise hif the elders.

107:33 He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watgs into
dry ground;

107:34 A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wof them
that dwell therein.

107:35 He turneth the wilderness into a ster, and dry ground
into watersprings.

107:36 And there he maketh the dwell, that they may prepare
a city for habitation;

107:37 And sow t and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits
of increase.

107:38 He b also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and
suffereth not their cacrease.

107:39 Again, they are minished and brought low through oppreliction, and sorrow.

107:40 He poureth contempt upon princes, and cau to wander in
the wilderness, where there is no way.

107:41 Yet settepoor on high from affliction, and maketh him
families like a flock.

1righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall
stop her m:43 Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall
unde lovingkindness of the LORD.



108:1 O god, my heart is fixed; I will give praise, even with
my glory.

108:2 Awake, psaltery and harp: I m awake early.

108:3 I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: andng
praises unto thee among the nations.

108:4 For thy mercy is great  heavens: and thy truth reacheth
unto the clouds.

108:5 Be thou exalt, above the heavens: and thy glory above
all the earth;

108:6 That thmay be delivered: save with thy right hand, and
answer me.

108:7 God  in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide
Shechem, and mete out  of Succoth.

108:8 Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is th
of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;

108:9 Moab is my washpot; over cast out my shoe; over
Philistia will I triumph.

108:10 Who will bri the strong city? who will lead me into
Edom?

108:11 Wilt not thou, Oast cast us off? and wilt not thou,
O God, go forth with our hosts?

1 us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

108:13 Through Godo valiantly: for he it is that shall
tread down our enemies.



109:1thy peace, O God of my praise;

109:2 For the mouth of the wicked and f the deceitful are
opened against me: they have spoken against me wittongue.

109:3 They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and ainst me without a cause.

109:4 For my love they are my adversaries:  myself unto
prayer.

109:5 And they have rewarded me evil for good, afor my love.

109:6 Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stanight
hand.

109:7 When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and layer become sin.

109:8 Let his days be few; and let another take his 09:9 Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.

109:10 Leten be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them
seek their bread also or desolate places.

109:11 Let the extortioner catch all that he hath;the
strangers spoil his labour.

109:12 Let there be none to extend mem: neither let there
be any to favour his fatherless children.

109:13sterity be cut off; and in the generation following
let their name be t.

109:14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORDnot the sin of his mother be blotted out.

109:15 Let them be before tntinually, that he may cut off
the memory of them from the earth.

109e that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted
the poor and neat he might even slay the broken in heart.

109:17 As he loved cursing it come unto him: as he delighted
not in blessing, so let it be far f109:18 As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, soe into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.

109:19 Let him as the garment which covereth him, and for a
girdle wherewith he continually.

109:20 Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from tnd
of them that speak evil against my soul.

109:21 But do thou for mee Lord, for thy name’s sake:
because thy mercy is good, deliver thou2 For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.

109:23 like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and
down as the locu24 My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of
fatness.ecame also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me
they shaked 09:26 Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy:

109:2y know that this is thy hand; that thou, LORD, hast
done it.

109:28 Lrse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be
ashamed; but let thyjoice.

109:29 Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let theemselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.

109:30 I will grse the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will
praise him among the multitude.or he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him
from thosemn his soul.



110:1 The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my rightil I
make thine enemies thy footstool.

110:2 The LORD shall send the strength out of Zion: rule
thou in the midst of thine enemies.

110:3le shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the
beauties of holinee womb of the morning: thou hast the dew
of thy youth.

110:4 The LORDrn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for
ever after the order ofk.

110:5 The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in thes wrath.

110:6 He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the plthe dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.

110:7 k of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift
up the head.



111ye the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart,
in the assembupright, and in the congregation.

111:2 The works of the LORD are gre out of all them that
have pleasure therein.

111:3 His work is honourglorious: and his righteousness
endureth for ever.

111:4 He hath maderful works to be remembered: the LORD is
gracious and full of compassi He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be
mindful oenant.

111:6 He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that h them the heritage of the heathen.

111:7 The works of his hands are vjudgment; all his
commandments are sure.

111:8 They stand fast for evr, and are done in truth and
uprightness.

111:9 He sent redemption unple: he hath commanded his
covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his11:10 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good
understa all they that do his commandments: his praise
endureth for ever.



1e ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD,
that delighte in his commandments.

112:2 His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the n of the
upright shall be blessed.

112:3 Wealth and riches shall be ie: and his righteousness
endureth for ever.

112:4 Unto the upright thh light in the darkness: he is
gracious, and full of compassion, and r112:5 A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his
affairscretion.

112:6 Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous n
everlasting remembrance.

112:7 He shall not be afraid of evil tidinart is fixed,
trusting in the LORD.

112:8 His heart is established, ht be afraid, until he see
his desire upon his enemies.

112:9 He hath d, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness
endureth for ever; hisl be exalted with honour.

112:10 The wicked shall see it, and be grieall gnash with
his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shal


113:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise, O ye servants of the LORD, praise of the LORD.

113:2 Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time for
evermore.

113:3 From the rising of the sun unto the going down of te
LORD’s name is to be praised.

113:4 The LORD is high above all na his glory above the
heavens.

113:5 Who is like unto the LORD our Godleth on high,

113:6 Who humbleth himself to behold the things that aren,
and in the earth!

113:7 He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, athe needy
out of the dunghill;

113:8 That he may set him with princesh the princes of his
people.

113:9 He maketh the barren woman to keepnd to be a joyful
mother of children. Praise ye the LORD.



114:1 Wheent out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people
of strange languageudah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.

114:3 The sea saw it: Jordan was driven back.

114:4 The mountains skipped like rams, and e hills like
lambs.

114:5 What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fledu Jordan,
that thou wast driven back?

114:6 Ye mountains, that ye skiams; and ye little hills,
like lambs?

114:7 Tremble, thou earth, at te Lord, at the
presence of the God of Jacob;

114:8 Which turned the r a standing water, the flint into a
fountain of waters.



115:1 Not u LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory,
for thy mercy, and futh’s sake.

115:2 Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now th115:3 But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath
p115:4 Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men’s hands.

115ve mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they
see not:

115:ave ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they
smell not:

115ve hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they
walk not: neitthey through their throat.

115:8 They that make them are like unto thevery one that
trusteth in them.

115:9 O Israel, trust thou in the LO: he is their help and their
shield.

115:10 O house of Aaron, trust iD: he is their help and their
shield.

115:11 Ye that fear the LORD, te LORD: he is their help and
their shield.

115:12 The LORD hath been l of us: he will bless us; he will
bless the house of Israel; he will  house of Aaron.

115:13 He will bless them that fear the LORD, both sreat.

115:14 The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your
115:15 Ye are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth.

115:16n, even the heavens, are the LORD’s: but the earth
hath he given to ren of men.

115:17 The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go silence.

115:18 But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and fe.

Praise the LORD.



116:1 I love the LORD, because he hath heard md my
supplications.

116:2 Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, till I call
upon him as long as I live.

116:3 The sorrows of death com and the pains of hell gat
hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.

 called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee,
deliver m6:5 Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.

11D preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped
me.

116:7 Rthy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt
bountifully with thee.

1hou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from
tears, and my feling.

116:9 I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.

1lieved, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:

116:11 I say haste, All men are liars.

116:12 What shall I render unto the LORD  benefits toward
me?

116:13 I will take the cup of salvation, and cale name of the
LORD.

116:14 I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in th of all his
people.

116:15 Precious in the sight of the LORD is the dis saints.

116:16 O LORD, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, a
of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.

116:17 I will offer tosacrifice of thanksgiving, and will
call upon the name of the LORD.

1ll pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his
people.

1the courts of the LORD’s house, in the midst of thee, O
Jerusalem. Pthe LORD.



117:1 O praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all 117:2 For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of
tndureth for ever. Praise ye the LORD.



118:1 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: because his mercy
endureth for ever.

118:2 Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.

118:3 Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for
ever.

118:4 Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy endureth for
ever.

118:5 I called upon the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, and
set me in place.

118:6 The LORD is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do

118:7 The LORD taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shal desire upon them that hate me.

118:8 It is better to trust in the LO put confidence in man.

118:9 It is better to trust in the LORD than nfidence in
princes.

118:10 All nations compassed me about: but in ththe LORD
will I destroy them.

118:11 They compassed me about; yea, thsed me about: but in
the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

118:12assed me about like bees: they are quenched as the
fire of thorns: forme of the LORD I will destroy them.

118:13 Thou hast thrust sore at mfall: but the LORD
helped me.

118:14 The LORD is my strength and songme my salvation.

118:15 The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in thles of
the righteous: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.

118 right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the
LORD doeth v118:17 I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.

 LORD hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over
unto deathOpen to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and
I willse the LORD:

118:20 This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous ser.

118:21 I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art becomeon.

118:22 The stone which the builders refused is become the head st corner.

118:23 This is the LORD’s doing; it is marvellous in our e24 This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and
be gl

118:25 Save now, I beseech thee, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech thee, senperity.

118:26 Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD: we ed you out of the house of the LORD.

118:27 God is the LORD, which haus light: bind the sacrifice
with cords, even unto the horns of the al:28 Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I
will e
118:29 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy
endever.



119:1 Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the lORD.

119:2 Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek e whole heart.

119:3 They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.ou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.

119:5 O that my directed to keep thy statutes!

119:6 Then shall I not be ashamed, whrespect unto all thy
commandments.

119:7 I will praise thee with upri heart, when I shall have
learned thy righteous judgments.

119:8 I wiy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.

119:9 Wherewithal shall a youngeanse his way? by taking heed
thereto according to thy word.

119:10 We heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander
from thy commandments.Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against
thee.
essed art thou, O LORD: teach me thy statutes.

119:13 With my lips haed all the judgments of thy mouth.

119:14 I have rejoiced in the way imonies, as much as in
all riches.

119:15 I will meditate in thy prechave respect unto thy
ways.

119:16 I will delight myself in thy statul not forget thy
word.

119:17 Deal bountifully with thy servant, thate, and keep
thy word.

119:18 Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wings out of
thy law.

119:19 I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thents from
me.

119:20 My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unments at all times.

119:21 Thou hast rebuked the proud that are curseo err from
thy commandments.

119:22 Remove from me reproach and conte have kept thy
testimonies.

119:23 Princes also did sit and speak agaut thy servant did
meditate in thy statutes.

119:24 Thy testimonies a delight and my counsellors.

119:25 My soul cleaveth unto the dust: qu me according to
thy word.

119:26 I have declared my ways, and thou : teach me thy
statutes.

119:27 Make me to understand the way of thy so shall I talk
of thy wondrous works.

119:28 My soul melteth for hearengthen thou me according
unto thy word.

119:29 Remove from me the w: and grant me thy law
graciously.

119:30 I have chosen the way of trudgments have I laid
before me.

119:31 I have stuck unto thy testimon, put me not to shame.

119:32 I will run the way of thy commandments,shalt enlarge
my heart.

119:33 Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statu shall keep it
unto the end.

119:34 Give me understanding, and I shallaw; yea, I shall
observe it with my whole heart.

119:35 Make me to gpath of thy commandments; for therein do I
delight.

119:36 Incline my thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.

119:37 Turn away mine eyesng vanity; and quicken thou me
in thy way.

119:38 Stablish thy word urvant, who is devoted to thy fear.

119:39 Turn away my reproach which thy judgments are good.

119:40 Behold, I have longed after thy precen me in thy
righteousness.

119:41 Let thy mercies come also unto me, en thy salvation,
according to thy word.

119:42 So shall I have wherethat reproacheth me:
for I trust in thy word.

119:43 And take not the truth utterly out of my mouth; for I
have hoped in thy judgments.

11all I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.

119:45 And I will werty: for I seek thy precepts.

119:46 I will speak of thy testimoniesore kings, and will not
be ashamed.

119:47 And I will delight myself andments, which I have
loved.

119:48 My hands also will I lift up untndments, which I
have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.

119er the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused
me to hope.
his is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath
quickened me.

1roud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not
declined from thy:52 I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted
myse3 Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that
forsake th54 Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.

119e remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept
thy law.

1I had, because I kept thy precepts.

119:57 Thou art my portion, O LORsaid that I would keep thy
words.

119:58 I intreated thy favour with heart: be merciful unto me
according to thy word.

119:59 I thought on and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.

119:60 I made haste, and ded not to keep thy commandments.

119:61 The bands of the wicked have re: but I have not
forgotten thy law.

119:62 At midnight I will rise tnks unto thee because of thy
righteous judgments.

119:63 I am a compal them that fear thee, and of them that
keep thy precepts.

119:64 TheORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.

119:65 Thou hast deth thy servant, O LORD, according unto
thy word.

119:66 Teach me goodnd knowledge: for I have believed thy
commandments.

119:67 Before I wed I went astray: but now have I kept thy
word.

119:68 Thou art good,good; teach me thy statutes.

119:69 The proud have forged a lie again I will keep thy
precepts with my whole heart.

119:70 Their heart is rease; but I delight in thy law.

119:71 It is good for me that I haveicted; that I might
learn thy statutes.

119:72 The law of thy mouth into me than thousands of gold
and silver.

119:73 Thy hands have made ioned me: give me understanding,
that I may learn thy commandments.

1that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I
have hoped in 119:75 I know, O LORD, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in
faithfulness hast afflicted me.

119:76 Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort,
according to thy word unto thy servant.

119:77 Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy
law is my delight.

119:78 Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me
without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts.

119:79 Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have
known thy testimonies.

119:80 Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.

119:81 My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word.

119:82 Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wimfort me?

119:83 For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do It
thy statutes.

119:84 How many are the days of thy servant? when wilecute
judgment on them that persecute me?

119:85 The proud have digge me, which are not after thy law.

119:86 All thy commandments are fai persecute me
wrongfully; help thou me.

119:87 They had almost consumearth; but I forsook not thy
precepts.

119:88 Quicken me after thy los; so shall I keep the
testimony of thy mouth.

119:89 For ever, O LORd is settled in heaven.

119:90 Thy faithfulness is unto all generatioast established
the earth, and it abideth.

119:91 They continue this ing to thine ordinances: for all
are thy servants.

119:92 Unless thy en my delights, I should then have
perished in mine affliction.

119:9ever forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast
quickened me.

119:9ine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts.

119:95 The wicked have  me to destroy me: but I will
consider thy testimonies.

119:96 I havend of all perfection: but thy commandment is
exceeding broad.

119:97 y law! it is my meditation all the day.

119:98 Thou through thy commat made me wiser than mine
enemies: for they are ever with me.

119:99 e understanding than all my teachers: for thy
testimonies are my medit9:100 I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy
precepts I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might
keep thy w102 I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught
me.

 sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey
to my mout4 Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate
every fal9:105 Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.

119:e sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy
righteous judgmen07 I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto
thy wo08 Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O
LORD,ach me thy judgments.

119:109 My soul is continually in my hand: yet orget thy
law.

119:110 The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I errom thy
precepts.

119:111 Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage or they
are the rejoicing of my heart.

119:112 I have inclined mine hrform thy statutes alway, even
unto the end.

119:113 I hate vain thouhy law do I love.

119:114 Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hy word.

119:115 Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the comof my God.

119:116 Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may liveme
not be ashamed of my hope.

119:117 Hold thou me up, and I shall beI will have respect
unto thy statutes continually.

119:118 Thou hast wn all them that err from thy statutes:
for their deceit is falsehood.hou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross:
therefore I lstimonies.

119:120 My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afrajudgments.

119:121 I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to ssors.

119:122 Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud .

119:123 Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy
rs.

119:124 Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach tutes.

119:125 I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may knimonies.

119:126 It is time for thee, LORD, to work: for they have mahy law.

119:127 Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, abld.

119:128 Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all thingsht; and I hate every false way.

119:129 Thy testimonies are wonderfule doth my soul keep
them.

119:130 The entrance of thy words giveth liveth
understanding unto the simple.

119:131 I opened my mouth, and paI longed for thy
commandments.

119:132 Look thou upon me, and be merce, as thou usest to
do unto those that love thy name.

119:133 Order m thy word: and let not any iniquity have
dominion over me.

119:134 Derom the oppression of man: so will I keep thy
precepts.

119:135 Make o shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy
statutes.

119:136 Rivers on down mine eyes, because they keep not thy
law.

119:137 Righteous arLORD, and upright are thy judgments.

119:138 Thy testimonies that thomanded are righteous and
very faithful.

119:139 My zeal hath consumedse mine enemies have forgotten
thy words.

119:140 Thy word is very puore thy servant loveth it.

119:141 I am small and despised: yet do nothy precepts.

119:142 Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousnehy law
is the truth.

119:143 Trouble and anguish have taken hold on m
commandments are my delights.

119:144 The righteousness of thy testieverlasting: give me
understanding, and I shall live.

119:145 I criedhole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy
statutes.

119:146 I criee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.

119:147 I prevented thef the morning, and cried: I hoped in
thy word.

119:148 Mine eyes prevght watches, that I might meditate in
thy word.

119:149 Hear my voiceunto thy lovingkindness: O LORD,
quicken me according to thy judgment.They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from
thy law.
hou art near, O LORD; and all thy commandments are truth.

119:152 Contestimonies, I have known of old that thou hast
founded them for ever.Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget
thy law.cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy
word.

119:155 Salv far from the wicked: for they seek not thy
statutes.

119:156 Great ader mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to
thy judgments.

119:157 Mpersecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline
from thy testimonie58 I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept
not 

119:159 Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD,
accordy lovingkindness.

119:160 Thy word is true from the beginning: and ev thy
righteous judgments endureth for ever.

119:161 Princes have perswithout a cause: but my heart
standeth in awe of thy word.

119:162 I thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.

119:163 I hate and abhor l thy law do I love.

119:164 Seven times a day do I praise thee becausighteous
judgments.

119:165 Great peace have they which love thy law:g shall
offend them.

119:166 LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, any
commandments.

119:167 My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I loveedingly.

119:168 I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for ale before thee.

119:169 Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: givetanding according to thy word.

119:170 Let my supplication come beforiver me according to
thy word.

119:171 My lips shall utter praise, whst taught me thy
statutes.

119:172 My tongue shall speak of thy word:y commandments
are righteousness.

119:173 Let thine hand help me; forosen thy precepts.

119:174 I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; ais my
delight.

119:175 Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; an
judgments help me.

119:176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seeant; for I
do not forget thy commandments.



120:1 In my distress I che LORD, and he heard me.

120:2 Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lom a deceitful
tongue.

120:3 What shall be given unto thee? or what sne unto thee,
thou false tongue?

120:4 Sharp arrows of the mighty, wif juniper.

120:5 Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in
of Kedar!

120:6 My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace.
m for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.



121:1 I will lift s unto the hills, from whence cometh my
help.

121:2 My help cometh frD, which made heaven and earth.

121:3 He will not suffer thy foot to  that keepeth thee
will not slumber.

121:4 Behold, he that keepeth Is neither slumber nor sleep.

121:5 The LORD is thy keeper: the LORD isupon thy right
hand.

121:6 The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor t night.

121:7 The LORD shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall pr soul.

121:8 The LORD shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in time forth, and even for evermore.



122:1 I was glad when they said t us go into the house of
the LORD.

122:2 Our feet shall stand withins, O Jerusalem.

122:3 Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact 
122:4 Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, unto the
testel, to give thanks unto the name of the LORD.

122:5 For there are setnes of judgment, the thrones of the house
of David.

122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love
thee.

122:7 Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.

122:8 For my brethren and companions’ sakes, I will now say, Peace be
within thee.

122:9 Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek thy good.



123:1 Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the

123:2 Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their
mass the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so
our eyes waitLORD our God, until that he have mercy upon us.

123:3 Have mercy uponD, have mercy upon us: for we are
exceedingly filled with contempt.

1oul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that
are at ease,the contempt of the proud.



124:1 If it had not been the LORD who waide, now may Israel
say;

124:2 If it had not been the LORD who was on when men rose
up against us:

124:3 Then they had swallowed us up quin their wrath was
kindled against us:

124:4 Then the waters had overw the stream had gone over our
soul:

124:5 Then the proud waters had goul.

124:6 Blessed be the LORD, who hath not given us as a prey to th24:7 Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers:
th broken, and we are escaped.

124:8 Our help is in the name of the LORe heaven and earth.



125:1 They that trust in the LORD shall be as mwhich cannot
be removed, but abideth for ever.

125:2 As the mountains about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round
about his people from hencefort ever.

125:3 For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot ofeous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.

125:4 DORD, unto those that be good, and to them that are
upright in their he5 As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the LORD
shall lerth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be
upon Israel.



1 the LORD turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like
them that d:2 Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with
singinid they among the heathen, The LORD hath done great
things for them.

LORD hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.

126:4 Turn aaptivity, O LORD, as the streams in the south.

126:5 They that sow inll reap in joy.

126:6 He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing preciohall
doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with hi1 Except the LORD build the house, they labour in vain that build
it:  LORD keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.

127:2 It is vai to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the
bread of sorrows: for so his beloved sleep.

127:3 Lo, children are an heritage of the LORD: at of the
womb is his reward.

127:4 As arrows are in the hand of a migso are children of
the youth.

127:5 Happy is the man that hath his quof them: they shall
not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enem gate.



128:1 Blessed is every one that feareth the LORD; that walkeways.

128:2 For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt and it shall be well with thee.

128:3 Thy wife shall be as a fruitfu the sides of thine
house: thy children like olive plants round about 
128:4 Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the
LORThe LORD shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the
good of ll the days of thy life.

128:6 Yea, thou shalt see thy children’s cnd peace upon
Israel.



129:1 Many a time have they afflicted me frommay Israel now
say:

129:2 Many a time have they afflicted me from my t they have
not prevailed against me.

129:3 The plowers plowed upon mey made long their furrows.

129:4 The LORD is righteous: he hath cut e cords of the
wicked.

129:5 Let them all be confounded and turned bahate Zion.

129:6 Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which wafore it groweth up:

129:7 Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; t bindeth
sheaves his bosom.

129:8 Neither do they which go by say, Tng of the LORD be
upon you: we bless you in the name of the LORD.



1f the depths have I cried unto thee, O LORD.

130:2 Lord, hear my voicne ears be attentive to the voice of
my supplications.

130:3 If thou,uldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall
stand?

130:4 But there is fwith thee, that thou mayest be feared.

130:5 I wait for the LORD, my  wait, and in his word do I
hope.

130:6 My soul waiteth for the Lord they that watch for the
morning: I say, more than they that watch for g.

130:7 Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is merch him is plenteous redemption.

130:8 And he shall redeem Israel from iniquities.



131:1 Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes loft do I
exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.
ly I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is
weaned of hisy soul is even as a weaned child.

131:3 Let Israel hope in the LORD fforth and for ever.



132:1 Lord, remember David, and all his afflict32:2 How he sware unto the LORD, and vowed unto the mighty God of
Jacourely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go
up into 32:4 I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids,

il I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the
mighty God o132:6 Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of thewill go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his
footstool.

132:8ORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.

132:9 Let thy  clothed with righteousness; and let thy
saints shout for joy.

132:10ervant David’s sake turn not away the face of thine
anointed.

132:1 hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from
it; Of the fruiody will I set upon thy throne.

132:12 If thy children will keep my cd my testimony that I
shall teach them, their children shall also sit hrone for
evermore.

132:13 For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desor his
habitation.

132:14 This is my rest for ever: here will I dwelle desired
it.

132:15 I will abundantly bless her provision: I will sapoor
with bread.

132:16 I will also clothe her priests with salvationsaints
shall shout aloud for joy.

132:17 There will I make the horn oo bud: I have ordained a
lamp for mine anointed.

132:18 His enemies whe with shame: but upon himself shall
his crown flourish.



133:1 Behood and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell
together in unity!

1 like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down
upon the bearron’s beard: that went down to the skirts of
his garments;

133:3 Asf Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the
mountains of Zion: fo LORD commanded the blessing, even
life for evermore.



134:1 Behold,the LORD, all ye servants of the LORD, which by
night stand in the hou LORD.

134:2 Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the LORD.e LORD that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.



135:1 Pra LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise him,
O ye servants of th35:2 Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the
housod.

135:3 Praise the LORD; for the LORD is good: sing praises unto hior it is pleasant.

135:4 For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, for his
peculiar treasure.

135:5 For I know that the LORD is great, ur Lord is above
all gods.

135:6 Whatsoever the LORD pleased, that diaven, and in
earth, in the seas, and all deep places.

135:7 He causeturs to ascend from the ends of the earth; he
maketh lightnings for thebringeth the wind out of his
treasuries.

135:8 Who smote the firstbor, both of man and beast.

135:9 Who sent tokens and wonders into the mee, O Egypt,
upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.

135:10 Who smottions, and slew mighty kings;

135:11 Sihon king of the Amorites, and  Bashan, and all the
kingdoms of Canaan:

135:12 And gave their land ftage, an heritage unto Israel
his people.

135:13 Thy name, O LORD, enever; and thy memorial, O LORD,
throughout all generations.

135:14 FoD will judge his people, and he will repent himself
concerning his ser5:15 The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men’s35:16 They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they
s35:17 They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath
iouths.

135:18 They that make them are like unto them: so is every oneteth in them.

135:19 Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LOR of
Aaron:

135:20 Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the L
the LORD.

135:21 Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at 

Praise ye the LORD.



136:1 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is his mercy
endureth for ever.

136:2 O give thanks unto the God of godsercy endureth for
ever.

136:3 O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for endureth for
ever.

136:4 To him who alone doeth great wonders: for hndureth for
ever.

136:5 To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for hndureth
for ever.

136:6 To him that stretched out the earth above ther his
mercy endureth for ever.

136:7 To him that made great lights: fy endureth for ever:

136:8 The sun to rule by day: for his mercy enduer:

136:9 The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth.

136:10 To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy
enever:

136:11 And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy enr ever:

136:12 With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for ndureth for ever.

136:13 To him which divided the Red sea into parts:mercy
endureth for ever:

136:14 And made Israel to pass through the mis mercy
endureth for ever:

136:15 But overthrew Pharaoh and his hosted sea: for his
mercy endureth for ever.

136:16 To him which led his ugh the wilderness: for his
mercy endureth for ever.

136:17 To him whgreat kings: for his mercy endureth for
ever:

136:18 And slew famous  his mercy endureth for ever:

136:19 Sihon king of the Amorites: for endureth for ever:

136:20 And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy en ever:

136:21 And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy enduver:

136:22 Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy
e ever.

136:23 Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy enduver:

136:24 And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy enduer.

136:25 Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for e26 O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth
for ev:1 By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when
we  Zion.

137:2 We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereoFor there they that carried us away captive required of us a
song; and wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us
one of the songs of Z4 How shall we sing the LORD’s song in a strange land?

137:5 If I f O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her
cunning.

137:6 If I do nothee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of
my mouth; if I prefer not Jerve my chief joy.

137:7 Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the usalem;
who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof.

1ghter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he
be, that rew as thou hast served us.

137:9 Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasittle ones
against the stones.



138:1 I will praise thee with my whobefore the gods will I
sing praise unto thee.

138:2 I will worship tooly temple, and praise thy name for
thy lovingkindness and for thy truou hast magnified thy word
above all thy name.

138:3 In the day when u answeredst me, and strengthenedst
me with strength in my soul.

138:kings of the earth shall praise thee, O LORD, when they
hear the wordsth.

138:5 Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the LORD: for great is f the LORD.

138:6 Though the LORD be high, yet hath he respect unto tbut
the proud he knoweth afar off.

138:7 Though I walk in the midst o, thou wilt revive me: thou
shalt stretch forth thine hand against thef mine enemies, and
thy right hand shall save me.

138:8 The LORD willhat which concerneth me: thy mercy, O
LORD, endureth for ever: forsakeorks of thine own hands.



139:1 O lord, thou hast searched me, and k139:2 Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou
understandesht afar off.

139:3 Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and artd
with all my ways.

139:4 For there is not a word in my tongue, but, , thou
knowest it altogether.

139:5 Thou hast beset me behind and befaid thine hand upon
me.

139:6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me;gh, I cannot
attain unto it.

139:7 Whither shall I go from thy spiriter shall I flee from
thy presence?

139:8 If I ascend up into heaven, here: if I make my bed in
hell, behold, thou art there.

139:9 If I tags of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost
parts of the sea;

139:1re shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall
hold me.

139:11 Iurely the darkness shall cover me; even the night
shall be light about2 Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth
as thedarkness and the light are both alike to thee.

139:13 For thou hast py reins: thou hast covered me in my
mother’s womb.

139:14 I will pr; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made:
marvellous are thy works; asoul knoweth right well.

139:15 My substance was not hid from thee, wmade in secret,
and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earthThine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in
thy book mbers were written, which in continuance were
fashioned, when as yet tone of them.

139:17 How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O Godat is
the sum of them!

139:18 If I should count them, they are more ihan the sand:
when I awake, I am still with thee.

139:19 Surely thou icked, O God: depart from me
therefore, ye bloody men.

139:20 For theinst thee wickedly, and thine enemies take
thy name in vain.

139:21 De them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I
grieved with those that rinst thee?

139:22 I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine 139:23 Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my
though4 And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the
way eve

140:1 Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the
vi

140:2 Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they
gogether for war.

140:3 They have sharpened their tongues like a serpe’ poison
is under their lips. Selah.

140:4 Keep me, O LORD, from thf the wicked; preserve me from
the violent man; who have purposed to oy goings.

140:5 The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they haa
net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah.

140:6 I said ORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my
supplications, O LORD.

140he Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered
my head in thattle.

140:8 Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further nod device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah.

140:9 As for the head oft compass me about, let the mischief
of their own lips cover them.

14urning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the
fire; into deep they rise not up again.

140:11 Let not an evil speaker be establishearth: evil shall
hunt the violent man to overthrow him.

140:12 I knowLORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted,
and the right of the po3 Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the
upright shthy presence.



141:1 Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; givey
voice, when I cry unto thee.

141:2 Let my prayer be set forth beforincense; and the
lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

141 watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.

141:4 Incl heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works
with men that work nd let me not eat of their dainties.

141:5 Let the righteous smite me be a kindness: and let him
reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, l not break my
head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamitiWhen their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall
hear my wthey are sweet.

141:7 Our bones are scattered at the grave’s mouth,e
cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth.

141:8 But mine eyes are uO GOD the Lord: in thee is my
trust; leave not my soul destitute.

141 from the snares which they have laid for me, and the
gins of the workiquity.

141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that Iape.



142:1 I cried unto the LORD with my voice; with my voice unto id I make my supplication.

142:2 I poured out my complaint before himd before him my
trouble.

142:3 When my spirit was overwhelmed within u knewest my
path.

In the way wherein I walked have they privily laidor me.

142:4 I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that
would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.

142:5 I cried unto thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my refuge and my
portion in the land of the living.

142:6 Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from
my persecutors; for they are stronger tn I.

142:7 Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: tous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with
me.

ar my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in thy
faithfulnese, and in thy righteousness.

143:2 And enter not into judgment with tt: for in thy sight
shall no man living be justified.

143:3 For the e persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life
down to the ground; he ha to dwell in darkness, as those
that have been long dead.

143:4 There spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me
is desolate.

143:5 r the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse
on the work of 

143:6 I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after
thhirsty land. Selah.

143:7 Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit faileththy face
from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.
e me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee
do I trustnow the way wherein I should walk; for I lift
up my soul unto thee.

1er me, O LORD, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide
me.

143:10to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is
good; lead me into f uprightness.

143:11 Quicken me, O LORD, for thy name’s sake: for usness’
sake bring my soul out of trouble.

143:12 And of thy mercy ne enemies, and destroy all them
that afflict my soul: for I am thy se144:1 Blessed be the LORD my strength which teacheth my hands to war,
ers to fight:

144:2 My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and er;
my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under meORD, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son
of manu makest account of him!

144:4 Man is like to vanity: his days are asthat passeth
away.

144:5 Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touctains, and
they shall smoke.

144:6 Cast forth lightning, and scatter ot out thine arrows,
and destroy them.

144:7 Send thine hand from abo, and deliver me out of great
waters, from the hand of strange childreose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right
hand of fal9 I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an
instten strings will I sing praises unto thee.

144:10 It is he that giveton unto kings: who delivereth David
his servant from the hurtful sword1 Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose
mout vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of
falsehood:

144:12 Ths may be as plants grown up in their youth; that
our daughters may be stones, polished after the similitude
of a palace:

144:13 That our gabe full, affording all manner of store:
that our sheep may bring forth and ten thousands in our
streets:

144:14 That our oxen may be strong that there be no
breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complai
streets.

144:15 Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, hat people, whose God is the LORD.



145:1 I will extol thee, my God, d I will bless thy name for
ever and ever.

145:2 Every day will I blend I will praise thy name for ever
and ever.

145:3 Great is the LORD,ly to be praised; and his greatness
is unsearchable.

145:4 One genera praise thy works to another, and shall
declare thy mighty acts.

145:ak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy
wondrous works.

en shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I
will declare tss.

145:7 They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodnesll sing of thy righteousness.

145:8 The LORD is gracious, and full ofn; slow to anger, and
of great mercy.

145:9 The LORD is good to all: nder mercies are over all his
works.

145:10 All thy works shall praisLORD; and thy saints shall
bless thee.

145:11 They shall speak of thethy kingdom, and talk of thy
power;

145:12 To make known to the sons  mighty acts, and the
glorious majesty of his kingdom.

145:13 Thy kineverlasting kingdom, and thy dominion
endureth throughout all generati14 The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that
be .

145:15 The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their m season.

145:16 Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire ofng thing.

145:17 The LORD is righteous in all his ways, and holy in as.

145:18 The LORD is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all tupon him in truth.

145:19 He will fulfil the desire of them that fearso will
hear their cry, and will save them.

145:20 The LORD preservethat love him: but all the wicked
will he destroy.

145:21 My mouth shahe praise of the LORD: and let all flesh
bless his holy name for ever 


146:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul.

146:2 While l I praise the LORD: I will sing praises unto my
God while I have any 6:3 Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom
therlp.

146:4 His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that is thoughts perish.

146:5 Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for  whose hope
is in the LORD his God:

146:6 Which made heaven, and eart and all that therein is:
which keepeth truth for ever:

146:7 Which eent for the oppressed: which giveth food to
the hungry. The LORD looseprisoners:

146:8 The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raithat are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous:

146:9 The LORD pre strangers; he relieveth the fatherless
and widow: but the way of theturneth upside down.

146:10 The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy G unto all
generations. Praise ye the LORD.



147:1 Praise ye the LORDis good to sing praises unto our God;
for it is pleasant; and praise i

147:2 The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the
ouIsrael.

147:3 He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wo:4 He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their
na5 Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is
infiniteThe LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the
ground Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp
unto 147:8 Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the
maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.

147:9 He giveth to the beast and to the young ravens which
cry.

147:10 He delighteth not in the sthe horse: he taketh not
pleasure in the legs of a man.

147:11 The LOleasure in them that fear him, in those that
hope in his mercy.

147:1he LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.

147:13 For he hath strehe bars of thy gates; he hath blessed
thy children within thee.

147:1h peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the
finest of the wheat.e sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth
very swif16 He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like
ashes.

 casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his
cold?

1sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind
to blow, ahe waters flow.

147:19 He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes aments
unto Israel.

147:20 He hath not dealt so with any nation: and ajudgments,
they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD.



148:1 PraiORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise
him in the heights.

se ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.

148:3 Praisen and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.

148:4 Praise him, ye h heavens, and ye waters that be above
the heavens.

148:5 Let them prame of the LORD: for he commanded, and they
were created.

148:6 He hatblished them for ever and ever: he hath made a
decree which shall not :7 Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:

148:8 Fail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his
word:

148:9 Mountall hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:

148:10 Beasts, and all cattg things, and flying fowl:

148:11 Kings of the earth, and all people;and all judges of
the earth:

148:12 Both young men, and maidens; old ildren:

148:13 Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alollent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.

148:14 He also exalten of his people, the praise of all his
saints; even of the children of a people near unto him. Praise
ye the LORD.



149:1 Praise ye the LOto the LORD a new song, and his
praise in the congregation of saints.
 Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of
Zion be joyfr King.

149:3 Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing pr him with the timbrel and harp.

149:4 For the LORD taketh pleasure in: he will beautify the
meek with salvation.

149:5 Let the saints be jlory: let them sing aloud upon
their beds.

149:6 Let the high praises in their mouth, and a two-edged
sword in their hand;

149:7 To execute upon the heathen, and punishments upon the
people;

149:8 To bind thith chains, and their nobles with fetters
of iron;

149:9 To execute uhe judgment written: this honour have all
his saints. Praise ye the LO1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in
the ff his power.

150:2 Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him accordixcellent greatness.

150:3 Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: pwith the
psaltery and harp.

150:4 Praise him with the timbrel and dan him with stringed
instruments and organs.

150:5 Praise him upon the als: praise him upon the high
sounding cymbals.

150:6 Let every thing breath praise the LORD. Praise ye the LORD.




The Proverbs


1:1 Th of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; 1:2 To
know wisdom and in; to perceive the words of understanding;
1:3 To receive the instructdom, justice, and judgment, and
equity; 1:4 To give subtilty to the sio the young man knowledge
and discretion.

1:5 A wise man will hear, acrease learning; and a man of
understanding shall attain unto wise cou To understand a
proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wiseir dark
sayings.

1:7 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowleols
despise wisdom and instruction.

1:8 My son, hear the instruction her, and forsake not the
law of thy mother: 1:9 For they shall be an of grace unto thy
head, and chains about thy neck.

1:10 My son, if sine thee, consent thou not.

1:11 If they say, Come with us, let us lay ood, let us lurk
privily for the innocent without cause: 1:12 Let us sm up
alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pitshall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses
with spoilst in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse:
1:15 My son, walk nthe way with them; refrain thy foot from
their path: 1:16 For their fe evil, and make haste to shed
blood.

1:17 Surely in vain the net is she sight of any bird.

1:18 And they lay wait for their own blood; thevily for
their own lives.

1:19 So are the ways of every one that is gain; which taketh
away the life of the owners thereof.

1:20 Wisdom crut; she uttereth her voice in the streets:
1:21 She crieth in the chie concourse, in the openings of
the gates: in the city she uttereth heraying, 1:22 How long,
ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the delight in
their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?  1:23 Turn you aoof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known
my  you.

1:24 Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched ou, and no man regarded; 1:25 But ye have set at nought all my
counsel,  none of my reproof: 1:26 I also will laugh at your
calamity; I will myour fear cometh; 1:27 When your fear
cometh as desolation, and your dn cometh as a whirlwind; when
distress and anguish cometh upon you.

1hall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall
seek me earley shall not find me: 1:29 For that they hated
knowledge, and did not  fear of the LORD: 1:30 They would
none of my counsel: they despised aof.

1:31 Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and d with their own devices.

1:32 For the turning away of the simple shaem, and the
prosperity of fools shall destroy them.

1:33 But whoso hento me shall dwell safely, and shall be
quiet from fear of evil.

2:1  thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments
with thee; 2:2 Su incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply
thine heart to understandin, if thou criest after knowledge,
and liftest up thy voice for underst4 If thou seekest her as
silver, and searchest for her as for hid treaThen shalt
thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledg2:6 For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and
ding.

2:7 He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a bucklethat walk uprightly.

2:8 He keepeth the paths of judgment, and presery of his
saints.

2:9 Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and jud
equity; yea, every good path.

2:10 When wisdom entereth into thine knowledge is pleasant
unto thy soul; 2:11 Discretion shall preserve thtanding
shall keep thee: 2:12 To deliver thee from the way of the evil the man that speaketh froward things; 2:13 Who leave the paths of
upro walk in the ways of darkness; 2:14 Who rejoice to do
evil, and deligfrowardness of the wicked; 2:15 Whose ways
are crooked, and they frowaeir paths: 2:16 To deliver thee
from the strange woman, even from the hich flattereth with
her words; 2:17 Which forsaketh the guide of her d forgetteth
the covenant of her God.

2:18 For her house inclineth un, and her paths unto the dead.

2:19 None that go unto her return agai take they hold of the
paths of life.

2:20 That thou mayest walk in td men, and keep the paths
of the righteous.

2:21 For the upright shall in the land, and the perfect shall
remain in it.

2:22 But the wickecut off from the earth, and the
transgressors shall be rooted out of i son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my
commandments: 3:2th of days, and long life, and peace, shall
they add to thee.

3:3 Letand truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck;
write them upon the ine heart: 3:4 So shalt thou find
favour and good understanding in theGod and man.

3:5 Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean notne
own understanding.

3:6 In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he sha thy paths.

3:7 Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depvil.

3:8 It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.

3the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of
all thine inc:10 So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and
thy presses shall buth new wine.

3:11 My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neiry
of his correction: 3:12 For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; eveher the son in whom he delighteth.

3:13 Happy is the man that findethnd the man that getteth
understanding.

3:14 For the merchandise of itr than the merchandise of
silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.e is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst
desire abe compared unto her.

3:16 Length of days is in her right hand; and it hand riches
and honour.

3:17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, andpaths are peace.

3:18 She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upod happy
is every one that retaineth her.

3:19 The LORD by wisdom hathe earth; by understanding hath
he established the heavens.

3:20 By hige the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop
down the dew.

3:21 M not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom
and discretion: 3:ll they be life unto thy soul, and grace to
thy neck.

3:23 Then shalt in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not
stumble.

3:24 When thou li thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt
lie down, and thy sleep shaet.

3:25 Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of td, when it cometh.

3:26 For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shahy foot
from being taken.

3:27 Withhold not good from them to whom ithen it is in the
power of thine hand to do it.

3:28 Say not unto thy , Go, and come again, and to morrow I
will give; when thou hast it by 9 Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth
securely b:30 Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no
harm.y thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.

3:32 For the f abomination to the LORD: but his secret is
with the righteous.

3:33  of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he
blesseth the habita just.

3:34 Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace untoy.

3:35 The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotio.

4:1 Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to knding.

4:2 For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law.

4:3 my father’s son, tender and only beloved in the sight of
my mother.

4:4 He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my
words: keep my commandments, and live.

4:5 Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from
the words of my mouth.

4:6 Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she
shall keep thee.

4:7 Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and thy getting get understanding.

4:8 Exalt her, and she shall promote te shall bring thee to
honour, when thou dost embrace her.

4:9 She shao thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of
glory shall she deliver 4:10 Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy lifeany.

4:11 I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee inhs.

4:12 When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and whennest, thou shalt not stumble.

4:13 Take fast hold of instruction; leto: keep her; for she
is thy life.

4:14 Enter not into the path of thed go not in the way of
evil men.

4:15 Avoid it, pass not by it, turn and pass away.

4:16 For they sleep not, except they have done mischieeir
sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.

4:17 For theread of wickedness, and drink the wine of
violence.

4:18 But the pathst is as the shining light, that shineth
more and more unto the perfec19 The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they
st20 My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.

4:2 not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of
thine heart.

4they are life unto those that find them, and health to all
their fleshep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues
of life.away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far
from thee.

thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight
before t Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.

4:t to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from
evil.

5:1 Mend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my
understanding: 5:2 That thregard discretion, and that thy
lips may keep knowledge.

5:3 For the strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her
mouth is smoother than oilher end is bitter as wormwood,
sharp as a two-edged sword.

5:5 Her fen to death; her steps take hold on hell.

5:6 Lest thou shouldest pondth of life, her ways are
moveable, that thou canst not know them.

5:7ow therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the
words of my mouthve thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her
house: 5:9 give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto
the cruel: 5:10 Lest be filled with thy wealth; and thy
labours be in the house of a stranAnd thou mourn at the
last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, d say, How have
I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof; 5:e not
obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them tucted me!  5:14 I was almost in all evil in the midst of the
congregatsembly.

5:15 Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waterhine own well.

5:16 Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and riverss in
the streets.

5:17 Let them be only thine own, and not strangershee.

5:18 Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of t5:19 Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts
se at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.

5:20 And wu, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and
embrace the bosom of ?  5:21 For the ways of man are before
the eyes of the LORD, and he pol his goings.

5:22 His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, ll be
holden with the cords of his sins.

5:23 He shall die without inand in the greatness of his
folly he shall go astray.

6:1 My son, if urety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken
thy hand with a stranger, rt snared with the words of thy
mouth, thou art taken with the words oh.

6:3 Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come i hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.

6: sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.

6:5 Deliver thyse roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a
bird from the hand of the f6 Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise: 6:7
Whno guide, overseer, or ruler, 6:8 Provideth her meat in
the summer, an her food in the harvest.

6:9 How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? whou arise out of
thy sleep?  6:10 Yet a little sleep, a little slumberfolding of the hands to sleep: 6:11 So shall thy poverty come as one
tleth, and thy want as an armed man.

6:12 A naughty person, a wicked m with a froward mouth.

6:13 He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh witt, he teacheth
with his fingers; 6:14 Frowardness is in his heart, he ischief continually; he soweth discord.

6:15 Therefore shall his calauddenly; suddenly shall he be
broken without remedy.

6:16 These six t the LORD hate: yea, seven are an
abomination unto him: 6:17 A proud lng tongue, and hands
that shed innocent blood, 6:18 An heart that devid
imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, 6:19 A falsthat speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.

6:20 Meep thy father’s commandment, and forsake not the law of
thy mother:em continually upon thine heart, and tie them
about thy neck.

6:22 Whoest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall
keep thee; and awakest, it shall talk with thee.

6:23 For the commandment is a lamp;law is light; and reproofs
of instruction are the way of life: 6:24 To from the evil
woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange womLust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take
thee wielids.

6:26 For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a pied: and the adultress will hunt for the precious life.

6:27 Can a man in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
6:28 Can one go upon hot  his feet not be burned?  6:29 So
he that goeth in to his neighbours wever toucheth her shall
not be innocent.

6:30 Men do not despise a thsteal to satisfy his soul when
he is hungry; 6:31 But if he be found, estore sevenfold; he
shall give all the substance of his house.

6:32 committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding:
he that doeth yeth his own soul.

6:33 A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his rll not be
wiped away.

6:34 For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefoll not spare in
the day of vengeance.

6:35 He will not regard any ranr will he rest content,
though thou givest many gifts.

7:1 My son, keds, and lay up my commandments with thee.

7:2 Keep my commandments, and my law as the apple of thine
eye.

7:3 Bind them upon thy fingers,  upon the table of thine
heart.

7:4 Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sistll understanding thy
kinswoman: 7:5 That they may keep thee from the san, from
the stranger which flattereth with her words.

7:6 For at the my house I looked through my casement, 7:7
And beheld among the simpldiscerned among the youths, a
young man void of understanding, 7:8 Pasgh the street near
her corner; and he went the way to her house, 7:9 Ilight, in
the evening, in the black and dark night: 7:10 And, behold, him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart.

7:11 (d and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house: 7:12
Now is she witho the streets, and lieth in wait at every
corner.)  7:13 So she caught issed him, and with an impudent
face said unto him, 7:14 I have peace with me; this day have
I payed my vows.

7:15 Therefore came I forth te, diligently to seek thy face,
and I have found thee.

7:16 I have de bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved
works, with fine linen of:17 I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.

7:18 Cometake our fill of love until the morning: let us
solace ourselves with 19 For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey: 7:20
He a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day
appointed.

7:2much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the
flattering of her lrced him.

7:22 He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the 
or as a fool to the correction of the stocks; 7:23 Till a dart strikes liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not
that it is fo.

7:24 Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to th my mouth.

7:25 Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astraaths.

7:26 For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men slain by her.

7:27 Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chdeath.

8:1 Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of
the pShe crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming
in at

8:4 Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.

8:imple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an
understanding heaear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my
lips ight things.

8:7 For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is anon
to my lips.

8:8 All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; thhing
froward or perverse in them.

8:9 They are all plain to him that th, and right to them
that find knowledge.

8:10 Receive my instructiot silver; and knowledge rather than
choice gold.

8:11 For wisdom is brubies; and all the things that may be
desired are not to be compared 12 I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty
inven3 The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and
the  and the froward mouth, do I hate.

8:14 Counsel is mine, and sound wi understanding; I have
strength.

8:15 By me kings reign, and princes tice.

8:16 By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the:17 I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find
iches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and
righteousness.

ruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue
than cho.

8:20 I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths ent: 8:21 That I may cause those that love me to inherit
substance; anill their treasures.

8:22 The LORD possessed me in the beginning of hefore his
works of old.

8:23 I was set up from everlasting, from the , or ever the
earth was.

8:24 When there were no depths, I was broughhen there were
no fountains abounding with water.

8:25 Before the mou settled, before the hills was I brought
forth: 8:26 While as yet he he the earth, nor the fields,
nor the highest part of the dust of the w7 When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass
upoof the depth: 8:28 When he established the clouds above:
when he strene fountains of the deep: 8:29 When he gave to
the sea his decree, thats should not pass his commandment:
when he appointed the foundations oh: 8:30 Then I was by
him, as one brought up with him: and I was dailyht,
rejoicing always before him; 8:31 Rejoicing in the habitable part th; and my delights were with the sons of men.

8:32 Now therefore heame, O ye children: for blessed are
they that keep my ways.

8:33 Hear on, and be wise, and refuse it not.

8:34 Blessed is the man that hearching daily at my gates,
waiting at the posts of my doors.

8:35 For wth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the
LORD.

8:36 But he neth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they
that hate me love deatisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven
pillars: 9:2h killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine;
she hath also furnishee.

9:3 She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest
phe city, 9:4 Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as
for him that derstanding, she saith to him, 9:5 Come, eat of
my bread, and drink ofwhich I have mingled.

9:6 Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in thnderstanding.

9:7 He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shamthat
rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot.

9:8 Reprove not a est he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and
he will love thee.

9:9 Give on to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a
just man, and he wse in learning.

9:10 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom:nowledge of the holy is understanding.

9:11 For by me thy days shall ied, and the years of thy life
shall be increased.

9:12 If thou be wishalt be wise for thyself: but if thou
scornest, thou alone shalt bearA foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing.

9:1sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high
places of the 15 To call passengers who go right on their
ways: 9:16 Whoso is simple turn in hither: and as for him
that wanteth understanding, she saith 17 Stolen waters are
sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.

9: knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests
are in the dell.

10:1 The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: bsh son is the heaviness of his mother.

10:2 Treasures of wickedness ping: but righteousness
delivereth from death.

10:3 The LORD will not  soul of the righteous to famish: but
he casteth away the substance ofd.

10:4 He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the handiligent maketh rich.

10:5 He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: t sleepeth
in harvest is a son that causeth shame.

10:6 Blessings arehead of the just: but violence covereth
the mouth of the wicked.

10:7 of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked
shall rot.

10:8 Tn heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool
shall fall.

10:alketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth
his ways shall0:10 He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool
s.

10:11 The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence
 the mouth of the wicked.

10:12 Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love  all sins.

10:13 In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom ist
a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.

10:14 Wy up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near
destruction.

10:h man’s wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the
poor is thty.

10:16 The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of tto sin.

10:17 He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but fuseth reproof erreth.

10:18 He that hideth hatred with lying lips, a uttereth a
slander, is a fool.

10:19 In the multitude of words thereot sin: but he that
refraineth his lips is wise.

10:20 The tongue of is as choice silver: the heart of the
wicked is little worth.

10:21 T the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of
wisdom.

10:22 Theof the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no
sorrow with it.

10:23 Iort to a fool to do mischief: but a man of
understanding hath wisdom.
 fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire
of the rigll be granted.

10:25 As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no moe
righteous is an everlasting foundation.

10:26 As vinegar to the tees smoke to the eyes, so is the
sluggard to them that send him.

10:27 of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the
wicked shall be shor0:28 The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation
ked shall perish.

10:29 The way of the LORD is strength to the uprightruction
shall be to the workers of iniquity.

10:30 The righteous shae removed: but the wicked shall not
inhabit the earth.

10:31 The moutust bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward
tongue shall be cut out.

1ips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth
of the wicth frowardness.

11:1 A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but ght is
his delight.

11:2 When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but wily is
wisdom.

11:3 The integrity of the upright shall guide them: butrseness of transgressors shall destroy them.

11:4 Riches profit not if wrath: but righteousness
delivereth from death.

11:5 The righteousne perfect shall direct his way: but the
wicked shall fall by his own w

11:6 The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but
transgall be taken in their own naughtiness.

11:7 When a wicked man dieth, ation shall perish: and the
hope of unjust men perisheth.

11:8 The ri delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh
in his stead.

11:9 Apocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through
knowledgee just be delivered.

11:10 When it goeth well with the righteous, theiceth: and
when the wicked perish, there is shouting.

11:11 By the blthe upright the city is exalted: but it is
overthrown by the mouth of .

11:12 He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man ing holdeth his peace.

11:13 A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he tis of a faithful
spirit concealeth the matter.

11:14 Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of
counsellors there is safety.

11:15 He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that
hateth suretiship is sure.

11:16 A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.

11:17 The merciful man doeth goodwn soul: but he that is
cruel troubleth his own flesh.

11:18 The wickh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth
righteousness shall be a su

11:19 As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil
puro his own death.

11:20 They that are of a froward heart are abominatiORD:
but such as are upright in their way are his delight.

11:21 Thouoin in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished:
but the seed of the rshall be delivered.

11:22 As a jewel of gold in a swine’s snout, sofair woman which
is without discretion.

11:23 The desire of the rightly good: but the expectation of
the wicked is wrath.

11:24 There is treth, and yet increaseth; and there is that
withholdeth more than is mt tendeth to poverty.

11:25 The liberal soul shall be made fat: and hatereth shall
be watered also himself.

11:26 He that withholdeth cornhall curse him: but
blessing shall be upon the head of him that sellet27 He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that
seekeef, it shall come unto him.

11:28 He that trusteth in his riches shal the righteous
shall flourish as a branch.

11:29 He that troubleth hie shall inherit the wind: and the
fool shall be servant to the wise of1:30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that
winnethwise.

11:31 Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: the wicked and the sinner.

12:1 Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowlhe that hateth
reproof is brutish.

12:2 A good man obtaineth favour o but a man of wicked
devices will he condemn.

12:3 A man shall not behed by wickedness: but the root of the
righteous shall not be moved.

uous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh
ashamed is aness in his bones.

12:5 The thoughts of the righteous are right: but sels of the
wicked are deceit.

12:6 The words of the wicked are to lifor blood: but the
mouth of the upright shall deliver them.

12:7 The e overthrown, and are not: but the house of the
righteous shall stand.an shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is
of a per shall be despised.

12:9 He that is despised, and hath a servant, is  he that
honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.

12:10 A righteous man  the life of his beast: but the tender
mercies of the wicked are cruel that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he
that follpersons is void of understanding.

12:12 The wicked desireth the net o: but the root of the
righteous yieldeth fruit.

12:13 The wicked is sthe transgression of his lips: but the
just shall come out of trouble.an shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth:
and the rec a man’s hands shall be rendered unto him.

12:15 The way of a fool n his own eyes: but he that
hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.

12:16 A wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth
shame.

12:17 He eth truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false
witness deceit.

12s that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the
tongue of the whealth.

12:19 The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a l is but for a moment.

12:20 Deceit is in the heart of them that imagiut to the
counsellors of peace is joy.

12:21 There shall no evil happjust: but the wicked shall be
filled with mischief.

12:22 Lying lips ation to the LORD: but they that deal truly
are his delight.

12:23 A n concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools
proclaimeth foolishnesshe hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall
be und

12:25 Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good wordlad.

12:26 The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but thhe wicked seduceth them.

12:27 The slothful man roasteth not that whi in hunting: but
the substance of a diligent man is precious.

12:28 If righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof
there is no death.ise son heareth his father’s instruction: but a scorner
heareth not 3:2 A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of
thssors shall eat violence.

13:3 He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his he that openeth
wide his lips shall have destruction.

13:4 The soul ogard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul
of the diligent shall be.

13:5 A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, ao shame.

13:6 Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: bss overthroweth the sinner.

13:7 There is that maketh himself rich, yhing: there is
that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.

13:8  of a man’s life are his riches: but the poor heareth
not rebuke.

1ght of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked
shall be pu:10 Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is
wisd Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that
gathereth byll increase.

13:12 Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the eth,
it is a tree of life.

13:13 Whoso despiseth the word shall be dehe that feareth
the commandment shall be rewarded.

13:14 The law of ts a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

13:15 Good ing giveth favour: but the way of transgressors
is hard.

13:16 Every an dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open
his folly.

13:17 A senger falleth into mischief: but a faithful
ambassador is health.

13ty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but
he that reeproof shall be honoured.

13:19 The desire accomplished is sweet to t but it is
abomination to fools to depart from evil.

13:20 He that wah wise men shall be wise: but a companion of
fools shall be destroyed.il pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be
repayed.

13:2n leaveth an inheritance to his children’s children:
and the wealth ner is laid up for the just.

13:23 Much food is in the tillage of the there is that is
destroyed for want of judgment.

13:24 He that spared hateth his son: but he that loveth him
chasteneth him betimes.

13:2teous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the
belly of the wickent.

14:1 Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketwith her hands.

14:2 He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the Lhe that
is perverse in his ways despiseth him.

14:3 In the mouth of t is a rod of pride: but the lips of
the wise shall preserve them.

14: oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the
strength of 4:5 A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter
li A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is
easy ut understandeth.

14:7 Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thost not
in him the lips of knowledge.

14:8 The wisdom of the prudent ierstand his way: but the folly
of fools is deceit.

14:9 Fools make a in: but among the righteous there is
favour.

14:10 The heart knoweth tterness; and a stranger doth not
intermeddle with his joy.

14:11 Thethe wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle
of the upright shalh.

14:12 There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
t the ways of death.

14:13 Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; anof that
mirth is heaviness.

14:14 The backslider in heart shall be fihis own ways: and a
good man shall be satisfied from himself.

14:15 Telieveth every word: but the prudent man looketh
well to his going.

1e man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool
rageth, and is co14:17 He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked
devated.

14:18 The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned wite.

14:19 The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates ofeous.

14:20 The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the richy friends.

14:21 He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he thaty
on the poor, happy is he.

14:22 Do they not err that devise evil? bnd truth shall be
to them that devise good.

14:23 In all labour thereit: but the talk of the lips tendeth
only to penury.

14:24 The crown e is their riches: but the foolishness of
fools is folly.

14:25 A tru delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness
speaketh lies.

14:26 In thhe LORD is strong confidence: and his children
shall have a place of r:27 The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snaath.

14:28 In the multitude of people is the king’s honour: but in f people is the destruction of the prince.

14:29 He that is slow to wgreat understanding: but he that
is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.

1d heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness
of the bonese that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that
honouret mercy on the poor.

14:32 The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous
hath hope in his death.

14:33 Wisdom resteth in trt of him that hath understanding: but
that which is in the midst of fde known.

14:34 Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproacpeople.

14:35 The king’s favour is toward a wise servant: but his winst him that causeth shame.

15:1 A soft answer turneth away wrath: bs words stir up
anger.

15:2 The tongue of the wise useth knowledge ar the mouth of
fools poureth out foolishness.

15:3 The eyes of the LORre in every place, beholding the evil and
the good.

15:4 A wholesome e of life: but perverseness therein is
a breach in the spirit.

15:5 Aiseth his father’s instruction: but he that regardeth
reproof is pru In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the
revenues oed is trouble.

15:7 The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the he
foolish doeth not so.

15:8 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomihe LORD: but
the prayer of the upright is his delight.

15:9 The way od is an abomination unto the LORD: but he
loveth him that followeth afeousness.

15:10 Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the wa
that hateth reproof shall die.

15:11 Hell and destruction are before how much more then the
hearts of the children of men?  15:12 A scorneot one that
reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.

15:13 A t maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of
the heart the spiritn.

15:14 The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: uth of fools feedeth on foolishness.

15:15 All the days of the afflicil: but he that is of a
merry heart hath a continual feast.

15:16 Betlittle with the fear of the LORD than great treasure
and trouble there17 Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and
haith.

15:18 A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to seth strife.

15:19 The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thore
way of the righteous is made plain.

15:20 A wise son maketh a glad t a foolish man despiseth his
mother.

15:21 Folly is joy to him that te of wisdom: but a man of
understanding walketh uprightly.

15:22 Witel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude
of counsellors theyished.

15:23 A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spe season, how good is it!  15:24 The way of life is above to the
wise,may depart from hell beneath.

15:25 The LORD will destroy the house o: but he will
establish the border of the widow.

15:26 The thoughts oked are an abomination to the LORD: but
the words of the pure are plea.

15:27 He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he thaifts shall live.

15:28 The heart of the righteous studieth to answer:outh of
the wicked poureth out evil things.

15:29 The LORD is far froed: but he heareth the prayer of
the righteous.

15:30 The light of thejoiceth the heart: and a good report
maketh the bones fat.

15:31 Theeareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.

15:32 He that refuuction despiseth his own soul: but he that
heareth reproof getteth und

15:33 The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before
humility.

16:1 The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer oue, is from the LORD.

16:2 All the ways of a man are clean in his ownthe LORD
weigheth the spirits.

16:3 Commit thy works unto the LORD, aughts shall be
established.

16:4 The LORD hath made all things for hi even the wicked
for the day of evil.

16:5 Every one that is proud inan abomination to the LORD:
though hand join in hand, he shall not be .

16:6 By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the
art from evil.

16:7 When a man’s ways please the LORD, he maketh evies to
be at peace with him.

16:8 Better is a little with righteousneeat revenues without
right.

16:9 A man’s heart deviseth his way: bu directeth his steps.

16:10 A divine sentence is in the lips of the kouth
transgresseth not in judgment.

16:11 A just weight and balance aRD’s: all the weights of the
bag are his work.

16:12 It is an abomikings to commit wickedness: for the
throne is established by righteous.

16:13 Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him thh right.

16:14 The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wll pacify it.

16:15 In the light of the king’s countenance is life;vour
is as a cloud of the latter rain.

16:16 How much better is it tom than gold! and to get
understanding rather to be chosen than silver!e highway of
the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his wth
his soul.

16:18 Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spiall.

16:19 Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, thaivide the spoil with the proud.

16:20 He that handleth a matter wiselind good: and whoso
trusteth in the LORD, happy is he.

16:21 The wiseshall be called prudent: and the sweetness of
the lips increaseth lear22 Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but
thtion of fools is folly.

16:23 The heart of the wise teacheth his moutth learning to
his lips.

16:24 Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sw soul, and
health to the bones.

16:25 There is a way that seemeth rigman, but the end
thereof are the ways of death.

16:26 He that laboureh for himself; for his mouth craveth
it of him.

16:27 An ungodly man  evil: and in his lips there is as a
burning fire.

16:28 A froward matrife: and a whisperer separateth chief
friends.

16:29 A violent man is neighbour, and leadeth him into the
way that is not good.

16:30 Hehis eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips
he bringeth evil to6:31 The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of
ess.

16:32 He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and heeth his spirit than he that taketh a city.

16:33 The lot is cast intobut the whole disposing thereof is
of the LORD.

17:1 Better is a dry d quietness therewith, than an house
full of sacrifices with strife.

e servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and
shall havthe inheritance among the brethren.

17:3 The fining pot is for silverfurnace for gold: but the
LORD trieth the hearts.

17:4 A wicked doer d to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to
a naughty tongue.

17:5 Whos the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad
at calamities shanpunished.

17:6 Children’s children are the crown of old men; and tf
children are their fathers.

17:7 Excellent speech becometh not a foless do lying lips a
prince.

17:8 A gift is as a precious stone in thf him that hath it:
whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.

17:9 He th a transgression seeketh love; but he that
repeateth a matter separariends.

17:10 A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundredto a fool.

17:11 An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a crueer
shall be sent against him.

17:12 Let a bear robbed of her whelps m rather than a fool
in his folly.

17:13 Whoso rewardeth evil for goodall not depart from his
house.

17:14 The beginning of strife is as whteth out water:
therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled w15 He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just,
eveh are abomination to the LORD.

17:16 Wherefore is there a price in th a fool to get wisdom,
seeing he hath no heart to it?  17:17 A friend all times,
and a brother is born for adversity.

17:18 A man void of uing striketh hands, and becometh surety
in the presence of his friend. loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth
his gatdestruction.

17:20 He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and a
perverse tongue falleth into mischief.

17:21 He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father
of a fool hath no joy.

17:22 A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit
drieth the bones.

17:23 A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways
of judgment.

17:24 Wisdom is before him that hath undersnding; but the eyes of a
fool are in the ends of the earth.

17:25 A fn is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her
that bare him.

17:2unish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for
equity.

17:27 Hh knowledge spareth his words: and a man of
understanding is of an excit.

17:28 Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: anshutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.

18:1 Through de, having separated himself, seeketh and
intermeddleth with all wisdom.ool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may
discover :3 When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with
ignomin.

18:4 The words of a man’s mouth are as deep waters, and the wellsisdom as a flowing brook.

18:5 It is not good to accept the person ofd, to overthrow
the righteous in judgment.

18:6 A fool’s lips entertion, and his mouth calleth for
strokes.

18:7 A fool’s mouth is hisn, and his lips are the snare of
his soul.

18:8 The words of a talebeas wounds, and they go down into
the innermost parts of the belly.

18o that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a
great wasteThe name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth
into it,e.

18:11 The rich man’s wealth is his strong city, and as an high w own conceit.

18:12 Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, a
honour is humility.

18:13 He that answereth a matter before he heareis folly and
shame unto him.

18:14 The spirit of a man will sustain hy; but a wounded
spirit who can bear?  18:15 The heart of the prudent nowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.

18:16 A man’s h room for him, and bringeth him before great
men.

18:17 He that is fs own cause seemeth just; but his
neighbour cometh and searcheth him.
lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the
mighty.

18:er offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and
their contentike the bars of a castle.

18:20 A man’s belly shall be satisfied witt of his mouth;
and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.
h and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that
love it shallruit thereof.

18:22 Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obvour
of the LORD.

18:23 The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answehly.

18:24 A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and thriend that sticketh closer than a brother.

19:1 Better is the poor th in his integrity, than he that is
perverse in his lips, and is a foollso, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he
that hh his feet sinneth.

19:3 The foolishness of man perverteth his way: art fretteth
against the LORD.

19:4 Wealth maketh many friends; but theparated from his
neighbour.

19:5 A false witness shall not be unpunihe that speaketh
lies shall not escape.

19:6 Many will intreat the fae prince: and every man is a
friend to him that giveth gifts.

19:7 Althren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his
friends go far froursueth them with words, yet they are
wanting to him.

19:8 He that geom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth
understanding shall find good.alse witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh
lies shall 19:10 Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to
hav princes.

19:11 The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it iy
to pass over a transgression.

19:12 The king’s wrath is as the roa lion; but his favour is
as dew upon the grass.

19:13 A foolish son alamity of his father: and the contentions
of a wife are a continual d.

19:14 House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudenfrom the LORD.

19:15 Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an ihall
suffer hunger.

19:16 He that keepeth the commandment keepeth hisbut he
that despiseth his ways shall die.

19:17 He that hath pity upo lendeth unto the LORD; and that
which he hath given will he pay him a18 Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare
forg.

19:19 A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou
de yet thou must do it again.

19:20 Hear counsel, and receive instructihou mayest be wise
in thy latter end.

19:21 There are many devices in heart; nevertheless the
counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.

19:22re of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better
than a liar.

19ar of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall
abide satisfhall not be visited with evil.

19:24 A slothful man hideth his hand im, and will not so
much as bring it to his mouth again.

19:25 Smite aand the simple will beware: and reprove one
that hath understanding, a understand knowledge.

19:26 He that wasteth his father, and chaseth ther, is a
son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.

19:27 Ceaseto hear the instruction that causeth to err from
the words of knowledg An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the
wicked deviquity.

19:29 Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for ths.

20:1 Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is
dey is not wise.

20:2 The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: wketh
him to anger sinneth against his own soul.

20:3 It is an honour o cease from strife: but every fool
will be meddling.

20:4 The sluggat plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall
he beg in harvest, and hg.

20:5 Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of
ing will draw it out.

20:6 Most men will proclaim every one his own gt a faithful
man who can find?  20:7 The just man walketh in his integchildren are blessed after him.

20:8 A king that sitteth in the thronent scattereth away all
evil with his eyes.

20:9 Who can say, I have rt clean, I am pure from my sin?
20:10 Divers weights, and divers meas of them are alike
abomination to the LORD.

20:11 Even a child is knodoings, whether his work be pure,
and whether it be right.

20:12 The r, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even
both of them.

20:13 Loep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and
thou shalt be satibread.

20:14 It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when hehis way, then he boasteth.

20:15 There is gold, and a multitude of ruthe lips of
knowledge are a precious jewel.

20:16 Take his garment thty for a stranger: and take a
pledge of him for a strange woman.

20:1 deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth
shall be filled wi.

20:18 Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice

20:19 He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefoot with him that flattereth with his lips.

20:20 Whoso curseth his fais mother, his lamp shall be put
out in obscure darkness.

20:21 An in may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the
end thereof shall notd.

20:22 Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, l save thee.

20:23 Divers weights are an abomination unto the LORD; a
balance is not good.

20:24 Man’s goings are of the LORD; how can a understand his
own way?  20:25 It is a snare to the man who devourethch is
holy, and after vows to make enquiry.

20:26 A wise king scattericked, and bringeth the wheel over
them.

20:27 The spirit of man is tof the LORD, searching all the
inward parts of the belly.

20:28 Mercyh preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by
mercy.

20:29 The goung men is their strength: and the beauty of old
men is the grey headhe blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the
inward p belly.

21:1 The king’s heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the riter: he turneth it whithersoever he will.

21:2 Every way of a man is is own eyes: but the LORD
pondereth the hearts.

21:3 To do justice an is more acceptable to the LORD than
sacrifice.

21:4 An high look, anheart, and the plowing of the wicked,
is sin.

21:5 The thoughts of th tend only to plenteousness; but of
every one that is hasty only to wa The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to
and m that seek death.

21:7 The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them;hey refuse
to do judgment.

21:8 The way of man is froward and strangeor the pure, his
work is right.

21:9 It is better to dwell in a cornehousetop, than with a
brawling woman in a wide house.

21:10 The soul ked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no
favour in his eyes.

21:11corner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when
the wise is inst receiveth knowledge.

21:12 The righteous man wisely considereth the  wicked:
but God overthroweth the wicked for their wickedness.

21:13 ppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall
cry himself, but e heard.

21:14 A gift in secret pacifieth anger: and a reward in the g wrath.

21:15 It is joy to the just to do judgment: but destruction o the workers of iniquity.

21:16 The man that wandereth out of the watanding shall
remain in the congregation of the dead.

21:17 He that lsure shall be a poor man: he that loveth wine
and oil shall not be riche wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the
transgressor foght.

21:19 It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a conte an angry woman.

21:20 There is treasure to be desired and oil in thewise; but a foolish man spendeth it up.

21:21 He that followeth aftersness and mercy findeth life,
righteousness, and honour.

21:22 A wiseth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the
strength of the confideof.

21:23 Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul frs.

21:24 Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud
:25 The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to
la26 He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth
andt.

21:27 The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more, wngeth it with a wicked mind?  21:28 A false witness shall
perish: but t heareth speaketh constantly.

21:29 A wicked man hardeneth his face: the upright, he
directeth his way.

21:30 There is no wisdom nor undenor counsel against the
LORD.

21:31 The horse is prepared against thettle: but safety is
of the LORD.

22:1 A GOOD name is rather to be choeat riches, and loving
favour rather than silver and gold.

22:2 The rr meet together: the LORD is the maker of them
all.

22:3 A prudent ma the evil, and hideth himself: but the
simple pass on, and are punisheBy humility and the fear of the LORD are riches, and honour, and
life.ns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth
keep his soufar from them.

22:6 Train up a child in the way he should go: and whe, he
will not depart from it.

22:7 The rich ruleth over the poor, andwer is servant to the
lender.

22:8 He that soweth iniquity shall reapand the rod of his
anger shall fail.

22:9 He that hath a bountiful eye blessed; for he giveth of
his bread to the poor.

22:10 Cast out thend contention shall go out; yea, strife
and reproach shall cease.

22:loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the
king shall be .

22:12 The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth f the transgressor.

22:13 The slothful man saith, There is a lion witl be
slain in the streets.

22:14 The mouth of strange women is a deephat is abhorred of
the LORD shall fall therein.

22:15 Foolishness is e heart of a child; but the rod of
correction shall drive it far from 6 He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that
giveich, shall surely come to want.

22:17 Bow down thine ear, and hear ththe wise, and apply
thine heart unto my knowledge.

22:18 For it is a hing if thou keep them within thee; they
shall withal be fitted in thy19 That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to thee
this do thee.

22:20 Have not I written to thee excellent things in counselsdge, 22:21 That I might make thee know the certainty of the
words of t thou mightest answer the words of truth to them
that send unto thee? not the poor, because he is poor:
neither oppress the afflicted in the:23 For the LORD will
plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those td them.

22:24 Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furiou shalt not go: 22:25 Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to
thy :26 Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are
surdebts.

22:27 If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy under thee?  22:28 Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy
fathers

22:29 Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand befo he shall not stand before mean men.

23:1 When thou sittest to eat wi, consider diligently what
is before thee: 23:2 And put a knife to thyf thou be a man
given to appetite.

23:3 Be not desirous of his daintiey are deceitful meat.

23:4 Labour not to be rich: cease from thine om.

23:5 Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches
cake themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward
heaven.

23:6 E the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither
desire thou his daint3:7 For as he thinketh in his heart, so
is he: Eat and drink, saith heut his heart is not with
thee.

23:8 The morsel which thou hast eaten  vomit up, and lose
thy sweet words.

23:9 Speak not in the ears of a he will despise the wisdom
of thy words.

23:10 Remove not the old land enter not into the fields of
the fatherless: 23:11 For their redeeme shall plead
their cause with thee.

23:12 Apply thine heart unto instthine ears to the words
of knowledge.

23:13 Withhold not correction fld: for if thou beatest him
with the rod, he shall not die.

23:14 Thoat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul
from hell.

23:15 My sne heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even
mine.

23:16 Yea, my rerejoice, when thy lips speak right things.

23:17 Let not thine heart s: but be thou in the fear of the
LORD all the day long.

23:18 For su is an end; and thine expectation shall not be
cut off.

23:19 Hear th, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the
way.

23:20 Be not among w; among riotous eaters of flesh: 23:21
For the drunkard and the gluttoome to poverty: and drowsiness
shall clothe a man with rags.

23:22 He thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy
mother when she is oluy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction,
and under
23:24 The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that
 a wise child shall have joy of him.

23:25 Thy father and thy mother lad, and she that bare thee
shall rejoice.

23:26 My son, give me thinnd let thine eyes observe my ways.

23:27 For a whore is a deep ditch;ge woman is a narrow
pit.

23:28 She also lieth in wait as for a prey,aseth the
transgressors among men.

23:29 Who hath woe? who hath sorroh contentions? who hath
babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hs of eyes?
23:30 They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seene.

23:31 Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth r in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.

23:32 At the last it biteserpent, and stingeth like an
adder.

23:33 Thine eyes shall behold stn, and thine heart shall
utter perverse things.

23:34 Yea, thou shaltthat lieth down in the midst of the
sea, or as he that lieth upon the mast.

23:35 They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sicke beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it
yet24:1 Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with
t For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of
mischiefhrough wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is
establisAnd by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with
all precious and plhes.

24:5 A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth
st24:6 For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of
rs there is safety.

24:7 Wisdom is too high for a fool: he openeth noh in the
gate.

24:8 He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a miserson.

24:9 The thought of foolishness is sin: and the scorner is an
on to men.

24:10 If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength 

24:11 If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, andt are ready to be slain; 24:12 If thou sayest, Behold, we
knew it not;he that pondereth the heart consider it? and he
that keepeth thy soul,e know it? and shall not he render to
every man according to his works:13 My son, eat thou honey,
because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:
24:14 So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou
hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall
not be cut off.

24:15 Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the
righteous; spoil not his resting plac6 For a just man falleth
seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicall into
mischief.

24:17 Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and le heart be
glad when he stumbleth: 24:18 Lest the LORD see it, and it dm, and he turn away his wrath from him.

24:19 Fret not thyself becausmen, neither be thou envious at
the wicked: 24:20 For there shall be n the evil man; the
candle of the wicked shall be put out.

24:21 My sou the LORD and the king: and meddle not with
them that are given to ch2 For their calamity shall rise
suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of   24:23 These things
also belong to the wise. It is not good to have rpersons in
judgment.

24:24 He that saith unto the wicked, Thou are ri shall the
people curse, nations shall abhor him: 24:25 But to them thhim shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.

24:26s his lips that giveth a right answer.

24:27 Prepare thy work withoutake it fit for thyself in the
field; and afterwards build thine house. not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and
deceive not wis.

24:29 Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will
rhe man according to his work.

24:30 I went by the field of the slothf the vineyard of the
man void of understanding; 24:31 And, lo, it was over with
thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the sthereof was broken down.

24:32 Then I saw, and considered it well: I lon it, and
received instruction.

24:33 Yet a little sleep, a little s little folding of the
hands to sleep: 24:34 So shall thy poverty comet
travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.

25:1 These are also provemon, which the men of Hezekiah
king of Judah copied out.

25:2 It is tf God to conceal a thing: but the honour of
kings is to search out a m:3 The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of
kiarchable.

25:4 Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall ca
vessel for the finer.

25:5 Take away the wicked from before the kin throne shall
be established in righteousness.

25:6 Put not forth thy presence of the king, and stand not
in the place of great men: 25:7 F it is that it be said unto
thee, Come up hither; than that thou shoul lower in the
presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.

25:8 th hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in
the end thereof neighbour hath put thee to shame.

25:9 Debate thy cause with thy neiself; and discover not a
secret to another: 25:10 Lest he that hearethee to shame,
and thine infamy turn not away.

25:11 A word fitly spokeapples of gold in pictures of
silver.

25:12 As an earring of gold, anent of fine gold, so is a
wise reprover upon an obedient ear.

25:13 A of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful
messenger to them thim: for he refresheth the soul of his
masters.

25:14 Whoso boasteth halse gift is like clouds and wind
without rain.

25:15 By long forbearprince persuaded, and a soft tongue
breaketh the bone.

25:16 Hast thoney? eat so much as is sufficient for thee,
lest thou be filled therewvomit it.

25:17 Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbours house; lest he f thee, and so hate thee.

25:18 A man that beareth false witness agaiighbour is a
maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.

25:19 Confidence ithful man in time of trouble is like a
broken tooth, and a foot out of25:20 As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.

25:21 If thine enemy, give him bread to eat; and if he be
thirsty, give him water to drink thou shalt heap coals of
fire upon his head, and the LORD shall rewar5:23 The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a
 tongue.

25:24 It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, tbrawling woman and in a wide house.

25:25 As cold waters to a thirstys good news from a far
country.

25:26 A righteous man falling down bewicked is as a troubled
fountain, and a corrupt spring.

25:27 It is neat much honey: so for men to search their own
glory is not glory.

25at hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is
broken downout walls.

26:1 As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour eemly for a fool.

26:2 As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flhe curse
causeless shall not come.

26:3 A whip for the horse, a bridlass, and a rod for the
fool’s back.

26:4 Answer not a fool accordinolly, lest thou also be like
unto him.

26:5 Answer a fool according ty, lest he be wise in his own
conceit.

26:6 He that sendeth a messagend of a fool cutteth off the
feet, and drinketh damage.

26:7 The legsme are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth
of fools.

26:8 As he t a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth
honour to a fool.

26:9 As aeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable
in the mouths of f0 The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool,
and reansgressors.

26:11 As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returney.

26:12 Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hopehan of him.

26:13 The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; in
the streets.

26:14 As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth t upon
his bed.

26:15 The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grto
bring it again to his mouth.

26:16 The sluggard is wiser in his owthan seven men that can
render a reason.

26:17 He that passeth by, anwith strife belonging not to
him, is like one that taketh a dog by the:18 As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, 26:19 So
ihat deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?
26:20 Where, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no
talebearer, the strif
26:21 As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a
contento kindle strife.

26:22 The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and n into
the innermost parts of the belly.

26:23 Burning lips and a wicare like a potsherd covered with
silver dross.

26:24 He that hateth d with his lips, and layeth up deceit
within him; 26:25 When he speaketelieve him not: for there
are seven abominations in his heart.

26:26 ed is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be
shewed before the whotion.

26:27 Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolle it will return upon him.

26:28 A lying tongue hateth those that are y it; and a
flattering mouth worketh ruin.

27:1 Boast not thyself of  for thou knowest not what a day
may bring forth.

27:2 Let another mae, and not thine own mouth; a stranger,
and not thine own lips.

27:3 s heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool’s wrath is
heavier than th27:4 Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to standnvy?  27:5 Open rebuke is better than secret love.

27:6 Faithful are of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy
are deceitful.

27:7 The full th an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every
bitter thing is sweet.

bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that
wandereth from his7:9 Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of
aiend by hearty counsel.

27:10 Thine own friend, and thy father’s frke not; neither
go into thy brother’s house in the day of thy calamiter is
a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.

27:11 My son,and make my heart glad, that I may answer him
that reproacheth me.

27nt man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the
simple pass on,unished.

27:13 Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and ta of him for a strange woman.

27:14 He that blesseth his friend with ae, rising early in
the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him.

2tinual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman
are alike.oever hideth her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his
right hand, ayeth itself.

27:17 Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the couf his
friend.

27:18 Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit the
that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.

27:19 As in water fach to face, so the heart of man to man.

27:20 Hell and destruction are; so the eyes of man are
never satisfied.

27:21 As the fining pot fornd the furnace for gold; so is a
man to his praise.

27:22 Though thou bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a
pestle, yet will not his fdepart from him.

27:23 Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flock well
to thy herds.

27:24 For riches are not for ever: and doth the e to every
generation?  27:25 The hay appeareth, and the tender grass self, and herbs of the mountains are gathered.

27:26 The lambs are foing, and the goats are the price of
the field.

27:27 And thou shalt h milk enough for thy food, for the
food of thy household, and for thence for thy maidens.

28:1 The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but tous are bold
as a lion.

28:2 For the transgression of a land many ares thereof: but
by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereprolonged.

28:3 A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweepinh
leaveth no food.

28:4 They that forsake the law praise the wicked: as keep the
law contend with them.

28:5 Evil men understand not judgmhey that seek the LORD
understand all things.

28:6 Better is the poors uprightness, than he that
is perverse in his ways, though he be rich Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion
of ri shameth his father.

28:8 He that by usury and unjust gain increasethtance, he
shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.

28:9 He th away his ear from hearing the law, even his
prayer shall be abominatiWhoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he
shall fallnto his own pit: but the upright shall have good
things in possession.e rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath
understaheth him out.

28:12 When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glon
the wicked rise, a man is hidden.

28:13 He that covereth his sins srosper: but whoso
confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.

28:is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his
heart shall fschief.

28:15 As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked rhe poor people.

28:16 The prince that wanteth understanding is also aressor:
but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.

28:17t doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee
to the pit; letay him.

28:18 Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is n his ways shall fall at once.

28:19 He that tilleth his land shall h of bread: but he that
followeth after vain persons shall have poverty28:20 A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh
hrich shall not be innocent.

28:21 To have respect of persons is not gor a piece of bread
that man will transgress.

28:22 He that hasteth tath an evil eye, and considereth not
that poverty shall come upon him.that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he
that flath the tongue.

28:24 Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and sait
transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.

28:25 He th proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that
putteth his trust in the  be made fat.

28:26 He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but keth
wisely, he shall be delivered.

28:27 He that giveth unto the poot lack: but he that hideth
his eyes shall have many a curse.

28:28 Whed rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish,
the righteous incr1 He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly
be , and that without remedy.

29:2 When the righteous are in authority,  rejoice: but when
the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.

29:3 Wh wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth
company with harlotshis substance.

29:4 The king by judgment establisheth the land: but hceiveth
gifts overthroweth it.

29:5 A man that flattereth his neighboth a net for his feet.

29:6 In the transgression of an evil man theree: but the
righteous doth sing and rejoice.

29:7 The righteous considcause of the poor: but the wicked
regardeth not to know it.

29:8 Scorring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away
wrath.

29:9 If a wisendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or
laugh, there is no rest.e bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.

29:11 A th all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till
afterwards.

29:12 er hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.

29:13 The poor and tul man meet together: the LORD
lighteneth both their eyes.

29:14 The faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be
established for ever.rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself
bringeth his hame.

29:16 When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth:ighteous shall see their fall.

29:17 Correct thy son, and he shall gist; yea, he shall give
delight unto thy soul.

29:18 Where there is nohe people perish: but he that keepeth
the law, happy is he.

29:19 A s not be corrected by words: for though he
understand he will not answe Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope
of a  of him.

29:21 He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a chile him become his son at the length.

29:22 An angry man stirreth up sta furious man aboundeth in
transgression.

29:23 A man’s pride shall low: but honour shall uphold the
humble in spirit.

29:24 Whoso is paief hateth his own soul: he heareth
cursing, and bewrayeth it not.

29 of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in
the LORD shal
29:26 Many seek the ruler’s favour; but every man’s judgment comee LORD.

29:27 An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he thaht in the way is abomination to the wicked.

30:1 The words of Agur thkeh, even the prophecy: the man
spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel anSurely I am more
brutish than any man, and have not the understanding 30:3 I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy.

30h ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered
the wind in who hath bound the waters in a garment? who
hath established all the  earth? what is his name, and what
is his son’s name, if thou canst  Every word of God is
pure: he is a shield unto them that put their tr.

30:6 Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou beliar.

30:7 Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not befor0:8 Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty
nor ri me with food convenient for me: 30:9 Lest I be full,
and deny thee, ao is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal,
and take the name of my G

30:10 Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and
nd guilty.

30:11 There is a generation that curseth their father, andless their mother.

30:12 There is a generation that are pure in their and yet
is not washed from their filthiness.

30:13 There is a generaw lofty are their eyes! and their
eyelids are lifted up.

30:14 There ration, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw
teeth as knives, to dpoor from off the earth, and the needy
from among men.

30:15 The horstwo daughters, crying, Give, give. There are
three things that are neved, yea, four things say not, It is
enough: 30:16 The grave; and the b the earth that is not
filled with water; and the fire that saith not,ugh.

30:17 The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey , the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young
eagles sha

30:18 There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, fou know not: 30:19 The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a
serpent ; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and
the way of a man with30:20 Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth
hnd saith, I have done no wickedness.

30:21 For three things the eartheted, and for four which it
cannot bear: 30:22 For a servant when he rnd a fool when he
is filled with meat; 30:23 For an odious woman when rried;
and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress.

30:24 There be fs which are little upon the earth, but they
are exceeding wise: 30:25 re a people not strong, yet they
prepare their meat in the summer; 30:ies are but a feeble
folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks; 30custs have
no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands; 30:28 The h hold with her hands, and is in kings’ palaces.

30:29 There be thrhich go well, yea, four are comely in
going: 30:30 A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not
away for any; 30:31 A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against
whom there is no rising up.

30:32 If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou
hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth.

30:33 Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the
wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath
bringeth forth strife.

31:1 The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught
him.

31:2 Won? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of
my vows?  31:3 y strength unto women, nor thy ways to that
which destroyeth kings.

3ot for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine;
nor for pri drink: 31:5 Lest they drink, and forget the
law, and pervert the judgy of the afflicted.

31:6 Give strong drink unto him that is ready to d wine unto
those that be of heavy hearts.

31:7 Let him drink, and fooverty, and remember his misery no
more.

31:8 Open thy mouth for the  cause of all such as are
appointed to destruction.

31:9 Open thy mourighteously, and plead the cause of the
poor and needy.

31:10 Who can for her price is far above
rubies.

31:11 The heart of her husband doy trust in her, so that he
shall have no need of spoil.

31:12 She wilood and not evil all the days of her life.

31:13 She seeketh wool, and worketh willingly with her
hands.

31:14 She is like the merchantsshe bringeth her food from
afar.

31:15 She riseth also while it is yend giveth meat to her
household, and a portion to her maidens.

31:16 reth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her
hands she planteth .

31:17 She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her ar She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth
not out
31:19 She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the
dis20 She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth
hethe needy.

31:21 She is not afraid of the snow for her household: forousehold are clothed with scarlet.

31:22 She maketh herself coveringsry; her clothing is silk
and purple.

31:23 Her husband is known in thhen he sitteth among the
elders of the land.

31:24 She maketh fine lielleth it; and delivereth girdles
unto the merchant.

31:25 Strength aare her clothing; and she shall rejoice in
time to come.

31:26 She opr mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law
of kindness.

31:27 h well to the ways of her household, and eateth not
the bread of idlen8 Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also,
and h her.

31:29 Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest t
31:30 Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that
feareD, she shall be praised.

31:31 Give her of the fruit of her hands; anown works praise
her in the gates.




Ecclesiastes

or

The Preacher
words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.

1:2 Vanitties, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is
vanity.

1:3 Whatth a man of all his labour which he taketh under the
sun?  1:4 One gensseth away, and another generation cometh:
but the earth abideth for e The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his
plac arose.

1:6 The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto tth;
it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again accordcircuits.

1:7 All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not fule
place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.

1:8 Aare full of labour; man cannot utter it: the eye is not
satisfied withor the ear filled with hearing.

1:9 The thing that hath been, it is thall be; and that
which is done is that which shall be done: and therething
under the sun.

1:10 Is there any thing whereof it may be said, s new? it
hath been already of old time, which was before us.

1:11 Thremembrance of former things; neither shall there be
any remembrance ohat are to come with those that shall come
after.

1:12 I the Preacherver Israel in Jerusalem.

1:13 And I gave my heart to seek and search dom concerning
all things that are done under heaven: this sore travai
given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith.

1:14 I have seenorks that are done under the sun; and,
behold, all is vanity and vexatit.

1:15 That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that whicng cannot be numbered.

1:16 I communed with mine own heart, saying, Le to great
estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that havere me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom
and k1:17 And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and
follyved that this also is vexation of spirit.

1:18 For in much wisdom is  and he that increaseth
knowledge increaseth sorrow.

2:1 I said in miGo to now, I will prove thee with mirth,
therefore enjoy pleasure: andhis also is vanity.

2:2 I said of laughter, It is mad: and of mirth, it?  2:3 I
sought in mine heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquainteart with wisdom; and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was
or the sons of men, which they should do under the heaven
all the daysife.

2:4 I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me
vin5 I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in
them of all k2:6 I made me pools of water, to water
therewith the wood that bringet 2:7 I got me servants
and maidens, and had servants born in my house;d great
possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jefore me: 2:8 I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar
trekings and of the provinces: I gat me men singers and women
singers, anghts of the sons of men, as musical instruments,
and that of all sortsI was great, and increased more than all that were before me in
Jerusay wisdom remained with me.

2:10 And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kem them, I withheld
not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced inbour: and
this was my portion of all my labour.

2:11 Then I looked ons that my hands had wrought, and on
the labour that I had laboured to hold, all was vanity and
vexation of spirit, and there was no profit uun.

2:12 And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and follyt can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which hath
beenone.

2:13 Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excness.

2:14 The wise man’s eyes are in his head; but the fool walketess: and I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to them
all.n said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it
happeneth evend why was I then more wise? Then I said in my
heart, that this also i
2:16 For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool foeeing that which now is in the days to come shall all be
forgotten.

Ath the wise man? as the fool.

2:17 Therefore I hated life; because that is wrought under
the sun is grievous unto me: for all is vanity and of spirit.

2:18 Yea, I hated all my labour which I had taken under tause I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me.

2:19 And h whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet
shall he have rule oveabour wherein I have laboured, and
wherein I have shewed myself wise uun. This is also vanity.

2:20 Therefore I went about to cause my hearof all the
labour which I took under the sun.

2:21 For there is a manur is in wisdom, and in knowledge,
and in equity; yet to a man that haoured therein shall he
leave it for his portion. This also is vanity a evil.

2:22 For what hath man of all his labour, and of the vexation rt, wherein he hath laboured under the sun?  2:23 For all his days
are and his travail grief; yea, his heart taketh not rest in
the night. To vanity.

2:24 There is nothing better for a man, than that he shouldrink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labour. This
, that it was from the hand of God.

2:25 For who can eat, or who else hereunto, more than I?
2:26 For God giveth to a man that is good in hisdom, and
knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, tod
to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This aly and vexation of spirit.

3:1 To every thing there is a season, and avery purpose
under the heaven: 3:2 A time to be born, and a time to dito
plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; 3:3 A time to
 time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build
up; 3:4 A tim and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a
time to dance; 3:5 A timeway stones, and a time to gather
stones together; a time to embrace, a to refrain from
embracing; 3:6 A time to get, and a time to lose; a tep, and
a time to cast away; 3:7 A time to rend, and a time to sew; a ep silence, and a time to speak; 3:8 A time to love, and a time to
hatof war, and a time of peace.

3:9 What profit hath he that worketh in n he laboureth?
3:10 I have seen the travail, which God hath given to f men
to be exercised in it.

3:11 He hath made every thing beautiful e: also he hath set
the world in their heart, so that no man can find rk that
God maketh from the beginning to the end.

3:12 I know that thood in them, but for a man to rejoice,
and to do good in his life.

3:o that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the good
of all his lis the gift of God.

3:14 I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall r: nothing
can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doetmen should fear before him.

3:15 That which hath been is now; and thah already
been; and God requireth that which is past.

3:16 And moreovaw under the sun the place of judgment, that
wickedness was there; andof righteousness, that iniquity
was there.

3:17 I said in mine heart,udge the righteous and the
wicked: for there is a time there for everynd for every
work.

3:18 I said in mine heart concerning the estate ofof men,
that God might manifest them, and that they might see that thees are beasts.

3:19 For that which befalleth the sons of men befalletven
one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yee all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above a
beast: fority.

3:20 All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn ton.

3:21 Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spireast that goeth downward to the earth?  3:22 Wherefore I
perceive thatnothing better, than that a man should rejoice
in his own works; for t portion: for who shall bring him to
see what shall be after him?  4:1turned, and considered all
the oppressions that are done under the sunld the tears of
such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; andde of
their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.

4: I praised the dead which are already dead more than the
living which ive.

4:3 Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, w seen the evil work that is done under the sun.

4:4 Again, I consideril, and every right work, that for
this a man is envied of his neighbos also vanity and
vexation of spirit.

4:5 The fool foldeth his hands nd eateth his own flesh.

4:6 Better is an handful with quietness, thae hands full with
travail and vexation of spirit.

4:7 Then I returned vanity under the sun.

4:8 There is one alone, and there is not a sec he hath
neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his laber is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom
do I l bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, it
is a sore travawo are better than one; because they have a good reward for their
laboor if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him
that hen he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.

4:11 Again, itogether, then they have heat: but how can one
be warm alone?  4:12 Anrevail against him, two shall
withstand him; and a threefold cord is n broken.

4:13 Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and fooliho will no more be admonished.

4:14 For out of prison he cometh to reas also he that is
born in his kingdom becometh poor.

4:15 I consider living which walk under the sun, with the
second child that shall stas stead.

4:16 There is no end of all the people, even of all that havre them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him.
Surely th vanity and vexation of spirit.

5:1 Keep thy foot when thou goest to f God, and be more
ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools:consider
not that they do evil.

5:2 Be not rash with thy mouth, and le heart be hasty to
utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, upon earth:
therefore let thy words be few.

5:3 For a dream cometh thultitude of business; and a fool’s
voice is known by multitude of woWhen thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath
no p fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.

5:5 Better is it that thou sh vow, than that thou shouldest
vow and not pay.

5:6 Suffer not thy mouse thy flesh to sin; neither say thou
before the angel, that it was aerefore should God be angry
at thy voice, and destroy the work of thin:7 For in the
multitude of dreams and many words there are also diversbut
fear thou God.

5:8 If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and verting
of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the mattethat is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than
theover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is
served bd.

5:10 He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; noroveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.

5:11 When goods ihey are increased that eat them: and what
good is there to the owners g the beholding of them with
their eyes?  5:12 The sleep of a labourint, whether he
eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will n him
to sleep.

5:13 There is a sore evil which I have seen under the ly,
riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.

5:14 But those rish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son,
and there is nothing in 

5:15 As he came forth of his mother’s womb, naked shall he return he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may
carry awayhand.

5:16 And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he camll he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind?
5:1 days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow
and wrath wikness.

5:18 Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for t and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that he
taketh sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him:
for it is his porEvery man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath
giver to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to
rejoice in his labou the gift of God.

5:20 For he shall not much remember the days of hisause God
answereth him in the joy of his heart.

6:1 There is an evil ve seen under the sun, and it is common
among men: 6:2 A man to whom Gven riches, wealth, and
honour, so that he wanteth nothing for his souat he
desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a streth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.

6:3 If a man beget children, and live many years, so that
the days of his years be many,oul be not filled with good,
and also that he have no burial; I say, tmely birth is
better than he.

6:4 For he cometh in with vanity, and din darkness, and his
name shall be covered with darkness.

6:5 Moreovenot seen the sun, nor known any thing: this hath
more rest than the otYea, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen
no gt all go to one place?  6:7 All the labour of man is for
his mouth, anappetite is not filled.

6:8 For what hath the wise more than the fool the poor,
that knoweth to walk before the living?  6:9 Better is the he eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity and
vexarit.

6:10 That which hath been is named already, and it is known that: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.

6:11 Seeie many things that increase vanity, what is man the
better?  6:12 For  what is good for man in this life, all
the days of his vain life whiceth as a shadow? for who can
tell a man what shall be after him under :1 A good name is
better than precious ointment; and the day of death y of
one’s birth.

7:2 It is better to go to the house of mourning,  to the
house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the livy it to his heart.

7:3 Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sade
countenance the heart is made better.

7:4 The heart of the wise is se of mourning; but the heart
of fools is in the house of mirth.

7:5 er to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to
hear the song of  For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of
the fool: this also is vanity.

7:7 Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the
heart.

7:8 Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the
patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.

7:9 Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the
bosom of fools.

7:10 Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better
than these? for thou dost not enisely concerning this.

7:11 Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and be is profit to
them that see the sun.

7:12 For wisdom is a defence, as a defence: but the
excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth lim that have
it.

7:13 Consider the work of God: for who can make that which
he hath made crooked?  7:14 In the day of prosperity be joyful, day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against
the the end that man should find nothing after him.

7:15 All things have  the days of my vanity: there is a just
man that perisheth in his righ, and there is a wicked man
that prolongeth his life in his wickednesshteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why
shouldest thou dthyself ?  7:17 Be not over much wicked,
neither be thou foolish: why thou die before thy time?  7:18
It is good that thou shouldest take hos; yea, also from this
withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth Goe forth of
them all.

7:19 Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than tenn which are
in the city.

7:20 For there is not a just man upon earth, good, and
sinneth not.

7:21 Also take no heed unto all words that arlest thou hear
thy servant curse thee: 7:22 For oftentimes also thine knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.

7:23 All this ved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it
was far from me.

7:24 Tis far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?
7:25 I applied mito know, and to search, and to seek out
wisdom, and the reason of thin know the wickedness of folly,
even of foolishness and madness: 7:26 An
death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as
ba pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall
be taken by  Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by
one, t the account: 7:28 Which yet my soul seeketh, but I
find not: one man usand have I found; but a woman among all
those have I not found.

7:2 only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but
they have sougy inventions.

8:1 Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpr a
thing?  a man’s wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldnessce shall be changed.

8:2 I counsel thee to keep the king’s commandmhat in regard
of the oath of God.

8:3 Be not hasty to go out of his sd not in an evil thing;
for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.

8:4 Whe of a king is, there is power: and who may say unto
him, What doest thoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no
evil thing: and a wise maniscerneth both time and judgment.

8:6 Because to every purpose there  judgment, therefore the
misery of man is great upon him.

8:7 For he t that which shall be: for who can tell him when
it shall be?  8:8 Then that hath power over the spirit to
retain the spirit; neither hath hthe day of death: and
there is no discharge in that war; neither shalls deliver
those that are given to it.

8:9 All this have I seen, and aeart unto every work that is
done under the sun: there is a time wheren ruleth over
another to his own hurt.

8:10 And so I saw the wicked bhad come and gone from the
place of the holy, and they were forgotten  where they had
so done: this is also vanity.

8:11 Because sentence avil work is not executed speedily,
therefore the heart of the sons of lly set in them to do
evil.

8:12 Though a sinner do evil an hundred this days be
prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with thear
God, which fear before him: 8:13 But it shall not be well with theeither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow;
because he feefore God.

8:14 There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that just men, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked;
e be wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the work
of the rigsaid that this also is vanity.

8:15 Then I commended mirth, because ano better thing under
the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be mehat shall
abide with him of his labour the days of his life, which Godm under the sun.

8:16 When I applied mine heart to know wisdom, and tbusiness
that is done upon the earth: (for also there is that neither ght seeth sleep with his eyes:) 8:17 Then I beheld all the work of
Godman cannot find out the work that is done under the sun:
because thougabour to seek it out, yet he shall not find it;
yea farther; though a hink to know it, yet shall he not be
able to find it.

9:1 For all thired in my heart even to declare all this,
that the righteous, and the their works, are in the hand of
God: no man knoweth either love or hatthat is before them.

9:2 All things come alike to all: there is one ee righteous,
and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to t;
to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the
e sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an
oath.

9:3 This g all things that are done under the sun, that
there is one event untoalso the heart of the sons of men is
full of evil, and madness is in t while they live, and after
that they go to the dead.

9:4 For to him ined to all the living there is hope: for a
living dog is better than on.

9:5 For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know no, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is
forgo Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, is now
perished; n they any more a portion for ever in any thing
that is done under the Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a
merry hed now accepteth thy works.

9:8 Let thy garments be always white; and ad lack no
ointment.

9:9 Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovestys of the
life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, ys of thy vanity: for that is thy portion in this life, and in thy
labthou takest under the sun.

9:10 Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, doy might; for
there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, e,
whither thou goest.

9:11 I returned, and saw under the sun, that tot to the
swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to th yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of
skill; bd chance happeneth to them all.

9:12 For man also knoweth not his timishes that are taken
in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught e; so are
the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddhem.

9:13 This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed ge: 9:14 There was a little city, and few men within it; and
there cameng against it, and besieged it, and built great
bulwarks against it: 9re was found in it a poor wise man,
and he by his wisdom delivered the no man remembered that
same poor man.

9:16 Then said I, Wisdom is betrength: nevertheless the
poor man’s wisdom is despised, and his worheard.

9:17 The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the crat ruleth among fools.

9:18 Wisdom is better than weapons of war: butr destroyeth
much good.

10:1 Dead flies cause the ointment of the aposend forth a
stinking savour: so doth a little folly him that is in rer
wisdom and honour.

10:2 A wise man’s heart is at his right hand; s heart at
his left.

10:3 Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh his wisdom
faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.

e spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy
place; for ycifieth great offences.

10:5 There is an evil which I have seen underas an error
which proceedeth from the ruler: 10:6 Folly is set in grea,
and the rich sit in low place.

10:7 I have seen servants upon horseces walking as servants
upon the earth.

10:8 He that diggeth a pit shnto it; and whoso breaketh an
hedge, a serpent shall bite him.

10:9 Wth stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that
cleaveth wood shall be d thereby.

10:10 If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, te
put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.

10:11 Surrpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler
is no better.

10:1s of a wise man’s mouth are gracious; but the lips of a
fool will swimself.

10:13 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness:nd of his talk is mischievous madness.

10:14 A fool also is full of w cannot tell what shall be;
and what shall be after him, who can tell 5 The labour of
the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he know to
go to the city.

10:16 Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a chy princes
eat in the morning!  10:17 Blessed art thou, O land, when ththe son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength,
anrunkenness!  10:18 By much slothfulness the building
decayeth; and thrness of the hands the house droppeth
through.

10:19 A feast is made fr, and wine maketh merry: but money
answereth all things.

10:20 Curseg, no not in thy thought; and curse not the
rich in thy bedchamber: fof the air shall carry the voice,
and that which hath wings shall tell 

11:1 Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after maportion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not
what evil sh upon the earth.

11:3 If the clouds be full of rain, they empty thems the
earth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the northlace where the tree falleth, there it shall be.

11:4 He that observetd shall not sow; and he that regardeth
the clouds shall not reap.

11:knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the
bones do grow i of her that is with child: even so thou
knowest not the works of God  all.

11:6 In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold nhand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or
that, they both shall be alike good.

11:7 Truly the light is sweet, and a ing it is for the eyes
to behold the sun: 11:8 But if a man live many  rejoice in
them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for tbe
many. All that cometh is vanity.

11:9 Rejoice, O young man, in thyd let thy heart cheer thee
in the days of thy youth, and walk in the we heart, and in
the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all t God
will bring thee into judgment.

11:10 Therefore remove sorrow frot, and put away evil from
thy flesh: for childhood and youth are vanitemember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil
days or the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no
pleasure in thele the sun, or the light, or the moon, or
the stars, be not darkened, ouds return after the rain: 12:3
In the day when the keepers of the horemble, and the strong
men shall bow themselves, and the grinders ceashey are few,
and those that look out of the windows be darkened, 12:4 s
shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low,ll rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters
of musick sought low; 12:5 Also when they shall be afraid of
that which is high, all be in the way, and the almond tree
shall flourish, and the grassho be a burden, and desire
shall fail: because man goeth to his long hommourners go
about the streets: 12:6 Or ever the silver cord be loosed,lden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or
the en at the cistern.

12:7 Then shall the dust return to the earth as itthe spirit
shall return unto God who gave it.

12:8 Vanity of vanities preacher; all is vanity.

12:9 And moreover, because the preacher wasstill taught the
people knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought set in
order many proverbs.

12:10 The preacher sought to find out accrds: and that which
was written was upright, even words of truth.

12:rds of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the
masters of , which are given from one shepherd.

12:12 And further, by these, my onished: of making many
books there is no end; and much study is a weathe flesh.

12:13 Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Feareep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.

12:14 For Going every work into judgment, with every secret
thing, whether it be gether it be evil.




The Song of Solomon


1:1 The song of songs, whin’s.

1:2 Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth: for thy love than wine.

1:3 Because of the savour of thy good ointments thy name ent poured forth, therefore do the virgins love thee.

1:4 Draw me, we after thee: the king hath brought me into his
chambers: we will be gloice in thee, we will remember thy
love more than wine: the upright lo1:5 I am black, but comely, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents
as the curtains of Solomon.

1:6 Look not upon me, because I am black,he sun hath looked
upon me: my mother’s children were angry with me; me the
keeper of the vineyards; but mine own vineyard have I not keptl me, O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest, where
thou makesk to rest at noon: for why should I be as one that
turneth aside by ththy companions?  1:8 If thou know not,
O thou fairest among women, go rth by the footsteps of the
flock, and feed thy kids beside the shephes.

1:9 I have compared thee, O my love, to a company of horses in
Phahariots.

1:10 Thy cheeks are comely with rows of jewels, thy neck witd.

1:11 We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver.

1:12ing sitteth at his table, my spikenard sendeth forth
the smell thereofundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me; he shall lie all
night betwasts.

1:14 My beloved is unto me as a cluster of camphire in the vinengedi.

1:15 Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; thves’ eyes.

1:16 Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, yea, pleasant: a is
green.

1:17 The beams of our house are cedar, and our rafters of  am the rose of Sharon, and the lily of the valleys.

2:2 As the lily ns, so is my love among the daughters.

2:3 As the apple tree among ththe wood, so is my beloved
among the sons. I sat down under his shadowt delight, and
his fruit was sweet to my taste.

2:4 He brought me to ting house, and his banner over me was
love.

2:5 Stay me with flagonse with apples: for I am sick of
love.

2:6 His left hand is under my his right hand doth embrace
me.

2:7 I charge you, O ye daughters of Je the roes, and by the
hinds of the field, that ye stir not up, nor awa, till he
please.

2:8 The voice of my beloved! behold, he cometh leaphe
mountains, skipping upon the hills.

2:9 My beloved is like a roe oart: behold, he standeth
behind our wall, he looketh forth at the windng himself
through the lattice.

2:10 My beloved spake, and said unto up, my love, my fair
one, and come away.

2:11 For, lo, the winter is ain is over and gone; 2:12 The
flowers appear on the earth; the time oing of birds is come,
and the voice of the turtle is heard in our landfig tree
putteth forth her green figs, and the vines with the tender g good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away.

2:14 O my dort in the clefts of the rock, in the secret
places of the stairs, let countenance, let me hear thy
voice; for sweet is thy voice, and thy cois comely.

2:15 Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vour vines have tender grapes.

2:16 My beloved is mine, and I am his:  among the lilies.

2:17 Until the day break, and the shadows flee awamy beloved,
and be thou like a roe or a young hart upon the mountains 

3:1 By night on my bed I sought him whom my soul loveth: I sought hiund him not.

3:2 I will rise now, and go about the city in the streetthe
broad ways I will seek him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but  not.

3:3 The watchmen that go about the city found me: to whom I saiim whom my soul loveth?  3:4 It was but a little that I passed
from thound him whom my soul loveth: I held him, and would
not let him go, unbrought him into my mother’s house, and
into the chamber of her that

3:5 I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes, and by tof the field, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love, till he
please.

3:6 Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness like pillars of
smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, with all powders of the
merchant?  3:7 Behold his bed, which is Solomon’s; threescore valiant
men are about it, of the valiant of Israel.

3:8 They all hold swords, being expert in war: every man hath his
sword upon his thigh because ofhe night.

3:9 King Solomon made himself a chariot of the wood of Leba He made the pillars thereof of silver, the bottom thereof of
gold, th of it of purple, the midst thereof being paved with
love, for the dauerusalem.

3:11 Go forth, O ye daughters of Zion, and behold king Solohe crown wherewith his mother crowned him in the day of his
espousals,e day of the gladness of his heart.

4:1 Behold, thou art fair, my lov thou art fair; thou hast
doves’ eyes within thy locks: thy hair is  of goats, that
appear from mount Gilead.

4:2 Thy teeth are like a fleep that are even shorn, which
came up from the washing; whereof everytwins, and none is
barren among them.

4:3 Thy lips are like a thread  and thy speech is comely:
thy temples are like a piece of a pomegrana thy locks.

4:4 Thy neck is like the tower of David builded for an arreon there hang a thousand bucklers, all shields of mighty men.

4:5 Teasts are like two young roes that are twins, which feed
among the lilntil the day break, and the shadows flee away, I will get me to
the mod to the hill of frankincense.

4:7 Thou art all fair, my love; there ot in thee.

4:8 Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse, with me from Lek
from the top of Amana, from the top of Shenir and Hermon, from the
lns, from the mountains of the leopards.

4:9 Thou hast ravished my heaer, my spouse; thou hast
ravished my heart with one of thine eyes, wit of thy neck.

4:10 How fair is thy love, my sister, my spouse! how mu is
thy love than wine! and the smell of thine ointments than all spicy lips, O my spouse, drop as the honeycomb: honey and milk are
under t and the smell of thy garments is like the smell of
Lebanon.

4:12 A gsed is my sister, my spouse; a spring shut up, a
fountain sealed.

4:1nts are an orchard of pomegranates, with pleasant fruits;
camphire, wird, 4:14 Spikenard and saffron; calamus and
cinnamon, with all trees onse; myrrh and aloes, with all
the chief spices: 4:15 A fountain of gall of living waters,
and streams from Lebanon.

4:16 Awake, O north wime, thou south; blow upon my garden,
that the spices thereof may flow my beloved come into his
garden, and eat his pleasant fruits.

5:1 I a my garden, my sister, my spouse: I have gathered my
myrrh with my spi eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have
drunk my wine with my milk: iends; drink, yea, drink
abundantly, O beloved.

5:2 I sleep, but my hth: it is the voice of my beloved that
knocketh, saying, Open to me, mmy love, my dove, my
undefiled: for my head is filled with dew, and myh the drops
of the night.

5:3 I have put off my coat; how shall I put I have washed my
feet; how shall I defile them?  5:4 My beloved put i by the
hole of the door, and my bowels were moved for him.

5:5 I rosen to my beloved; and my hands dropped with myrrh,
and my fingers withlling myrrh, upon the handles of the
lock.

5:6 I opened to my belovedeloved had withdrawn himself, and
was gone: my soul failed when he spaht him, but I could not
find him; I called him, but he gave me no answhe watchmen that went about the city found me, they smote me,
they wouhe keepers of the walls took away my veil from me.

5:8 I charge you,  of Jerusalem, if ye find my beloved,
that ye tell him, that I am sick

5:9 What is thy beloved more than another beloved, O thou fairest
am what is thy beloved more than another beloved, that thou
dost so char10 My beloved is white and ruddy, the chiefest
among ten thousand.

5: is as the most fine gold, his locks are bushy, and black
as a raven.
yes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers of waters, washed
with milky set.

5:13 His cheeks are as a bed of spices, as sweet flowers: his ilies, dropping sweet smelling myrrh.

5:14 His hands are as gold ring the beryl: his belly is as
bright ivory overlaid with sapphires.

5:1 are as pillars of marble, set upon sockets of fine gold:
his countenaLebanon, excellent as the cedars.

5:16 His mouth is most sweet: yea, gether lovely. This is my
beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters m.

6:1 Whither is thy beloved gone, O thou fairest among women? whithbeloved turned aside? that we may seek him with thee.

6:2 My beloved wn into his garden, to the beds of spices, to
feed in the gardens, and lilies.

6:3 I am my beloved’s, and my beloved is mine: he feedeth lilies.

6:4 Thou art beautiful, O my love, as Tirzah, comely as Jerusible as an army with banners.

6:5 Turn away thine eyes from me, for tvercome me: thy hair
is as a flock of goats that appear from Gilead.

eeth are as a flock of sheep which go up from the washing,
whereof eveeth twins, and there is not one barren among
them.

6:7 As a piece of te are thy temples within thy locks.

6:8 There are threescore queens,core concubines, and virgins
without number.

6:9 My dove, my undefilene; she is the only one of her
mother, she is the choice one of her thr. The daughters saw
her, and blessed her; yea, the queens and the connd they
praised her.

6:10 Who is she that looketh forth as the morninthe moon,
clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners?  6:1own into the garden of nuts to see the fruits of the valley, and to
seine flourished and the pomegranates budded.

6:12 Or ever I was aware, me like the chariots of
Amminadib.

6:13 Return, return, O Shulamite;turn, that we may look
upon thee. What will ye see in the Shulamite? A the company
of two armies.

7:1 How beautiful are thy feet with shoess daughter! the
joints of thy thighs are like jewels, the work of th a
cunning workman.

7:2 Thy navel is like a round goblet, which wanteuor: thy
belly is like an heap of wheat set about with lilies.

7:3 Thts are like two young roes that are twins.

7:4 Thy neck is as a tower; thine eyes like the fishpools in
Heshbon, by the gate of Bathrabbim:s as the tower of
Lebanon which looketh toward Damascus.

7:5 Thine hee is like Carmel, and the hair of thine head
like purple; the king is e galleries.

7:6 How fair and how pleasant art thou, O love, for deli7
This thy stature is like to a palm tree, and thy breasts to clusters.

7:8 I said, I will go up to the palm tree, I will take hold of the
reof: now also thy breasts shall be as clusters of the vine,
and the sy nose like apples; 7:9 And the roof of thy mouth
like the best wine foved, that goeth down sweetly, causing
the lips of those that are aslek.

7:10 I am my beloved’s, and his desire is toward me.

7:11 Come,d, let us go forth into the field; let us lodge in
the villages.

7:12t up early to the vineyards; let us see if the vine
flourish, whether  grape appear, and the pomegranates bud
forth: there will I give thee 
7:13 The mandrakes give a smell, and at our gates are all manner of
puits, new and old, which I have laid up for thee, O my
beloved.

8:1 Owert as my brother, that sucked the breasts of my
mother!  when I shoue without, I would kiss thee; yea, I
should not be despised.

8:2 I wohee, and bring thee into my mother’s house, who
would instruct me: Ise thee to drink of spiced wine of the
juice of my pomegranate.

8:3 Hand should be under my head, and his right hand should
embrace me.

8: you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that ye stir not up, nor
awake my love please.

8:5 Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning eloved? I raised thee up under the apple tree: there thy mother
broughth: there she brought thee forth that bare thee.

8:6 Set me as a seale heart, as a seal upon thine arm: for
love is strong as death; jealoul as the grave: the coals
thereof are coals of fire, which hath a mostflame.

8:7 Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods droa man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would
uttntemned.

8:8 We have a little sister, and she hath no breasts: what so
for our sister in the day when she shall be spoken for?  8:9 If she  we will build upon her a palace of silver: and if she be a
door, we w her with boards of cedar.

8:10 I am a wall, and my breasts like towes I in his eyes
as one that found favour.

8:11 Solomon had a vineyardhamon; he let out the vineyard unto
keepers; every one for the fruit t to bring a thousand
pieces of silver.

8:12 My vineyard, which is minre me: thou, O Solomon, must
have a thousand, and those that keep the of two hundred.

8:13 Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companionto thy
voice: cause me to hear it.

8:14 Make haste, my beloved, and be to a roe or to a young
hart upon the mountains of spices.




The Borophet Isaiah


1:1 The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw
Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and HezekiahJudah.

1:2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the LORD hath have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled
against1:3 The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master’s crib: but
Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider.

1:4 Ah sinful nation,a people laden with iniquity, a seed of
evildoers, children that are c: they have forsaken the LORD,
they have provoked the Holy One of Israger, they are gone
away backward.

1:5 Why should ye be stricken any mll revolt more and more:
the whole head is sick, and the whole heart f From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness
inwounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have not
been closed, neither mollified with ointment.

1:7 Your country is desolate, your c burned with fire: your
land, strangers devour it in your presence, anolate, as
overthrown by strangers.

1:8 And the daughter of Zion is lettage in a vineyard, as a
lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besiege1:9 Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, wee been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah.

1:10 Hea of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the
law of our God, yef Gomorrah.

1:11 To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices saith the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat
ts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of
lambs, or of he 12 When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your
haad my courts?  1:13 Bring no more vain oblations; incense
is an abomin me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of
assemblies, I cannot at is iniquity, even the solemn
meeting.

1:14 Your new moons and your easts my soul hateth: they are
a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear t And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from
you: e make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are
full of blood.

1ou, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from
before mine e to do evil; 1:17 Learn to do well; seek
judgment, relieve the oppresthe fatherless, plead for the
widow.

1:18 Come now, and let us reason, saith the LORD: though your
sins be as scarlet, they shall be as whi; though they be red
like crimson, they shall be as wool.

1:19 If ye  and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land:
1:20 But if ye refus, ye shall be devoured with the sword:
for the mouth of the LORD hath 

1:21 How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full of
judgmeousness lodged in it; but now murderers.

1:22 Thy silver is become dwine mixed with water: 1:23 Thy
princes are rebellious, and companions: every one loveth
gifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not ess,
neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them.

1:24 Therefohe LORD, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One of
Israel, Ah, I will ease  adversaries, and avenge me of mine
enemies: 1:25 And I will turn my hhee, and purely purge away
thy dross, and take away all thy tin: 1:26  restore thy
judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the begward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the
faithful citon shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with
righteousnesd the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall
be togthey that forsake the LORD shall be consumed.

1:29 For they shall be  the oaks which ye have desired, and
ye shall be confounded for the ga ye have chosen.

1:30 For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, anen that
hath no water.

1:31 And the strong shall be as tow, and the mas a spark,
and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench the word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and
Jerusalemd it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of
the LORe shall be established in the top of the mountains, and
shall be exalthe hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.

2:3 And many people shasay, Come ye, and let us go up to the
mountain of the LORD, to the hou God of Jacob; and he will
teach us of his ways, and we will walk in hfor out of Zion
shall go forth the law, and the word of the LORD from 

2:4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many
peopey shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their
spears into prunnation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they learmore.

2:5 O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of 2:6 Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob,
becausreplenished from the east, and are soothsayers like
the Philistines, aease themselves in the children of
strangers.

2:7 Their land also is lver and gold, neither is there any
end of their treasures; their landull of horses, neither is
there any end of their chariots: 2:8 Their l full of idols;
they worship the work of their own hands, that which trs
have made: 2:9 And the mean man boweth down, and the great man
humb: therefore forgive them not.

2:10 Enter into the rock, and hide theet, for fear of the
LORD, and for the glory of his majesty.

2:11 The l of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of
men shall be bowed do LORD alone shall be exalted in that
day.

2:12 For the day of the LORs shall be upon every one that is
proud and lofty, and upon every one ted up; and he shall be
brought low: 2:13 And upon all the cedars of Lat are high
and lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan, 2:14 And ue
high mountains, and upon all the hills that are lifted up, 2:15 And
 high tower, and upon every fenced wall, 2:16 And upon all
the ships o and upon all pleasant pictures.

2:17 And the loftiness of man shall down, and the haughtiness
of men shall be made low: and the LORD aloneexalted in that
day.

2:18 And the idols he shall utterly abolish.

2:ey shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves
of the earar of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty,
when he ariseth to sly the earth.

2:20 In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, ls
of gold, which they made each one for himself to worship, to the mothe bats; 2:21 To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the
tops oged rocks, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of
his majesty, wheh to shake terribly the earth.

2:22 Cease ye from man, whose breath istrils: for wherein
is he to be accounted of ?  3:1 For, behold, the LRD of
hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water.

3:2 The mightthe man of war, the judge, and the prophet,
and the prudent, and the a The captain of fifty, and the
honourable man, and the counsellor, andng artificer, and the
eloquent orator.

3:4 And I will give children trinces, and babes shall rule
over them.

3:5 And the people shall be oevery one by another, and every
one by his neighbour: the child shall elf proudly against
the ancient, and the base against the honourable.
a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his
father, sayinst clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this
ruin be under thy hand: 3 day shall he swear, saying, I will
not be an healer; for in my house  bread nor clothing: make
me not a ruler of the people.

3:8 For Jerusned, and Judah is fallen: because their tongue
and their doings are agLORD, to provoke the eyes of his
glory.

3:9 The shew of their counten witness against them; and they
declare their sin as Sodom, they hide  unto their soul! for
they have rewarded evil unto themselves.

3:10 Se righteous, that it shall be well with him: for they
shall eat the frr doings.

3:11 Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him: for the
his hands shall be given him.

3:12 As for my people, children are thsors, and women rule
over them. O my people, they which lead thee causr, and
destroy the way of thy paths.

3:13 The LORD standeth up to pleandeth to judge the people.

3:14 The LORD will enter into judgment with the ancients of his
people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard;
the spoil of the poor is in your houses.

3:15 What mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the
faces of the poor? saith the Lord GOD of hosts.

3:16 Moreover the LORD saith, Beuse the daughters of Zion are
haughty, and walk with stretched forth nanton eyes, walking
and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with: 3:17
Therefore the LORD will smite with a scab the crown of the headughters of Zion, and the LORD will discover their secret parts.

3:18 day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling
ornaments abfeet, and their cauls, and their round tires
like the moon, 3:19 The c the bracelets, and the mufflers,
3:20 The bonnets, and the ornaments s, and the headbands,
and the tablets, and the earrings, 3:21 The ring jewels,
3:22 The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and th, and the crisping pins, 3:23 The glasses, and the fine linen,
and the the vails.

3:24 And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smeall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well
set nd instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth;
and burning instead :25 Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war.

3:26 tes shall lament and mourn; and she being desolate
shall sit upon the :1 And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We
ur own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be
called by thy nke away our reproach.

4:2 In that day shall the branch of the LORD be and
glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comel that are escaped of Israel.

4:3 And it shall come to pass, that he t in Zion, and he
that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, evne that
is written among the living in Jerusalem: 4:4 When the Lord shashed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged
t Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit of
judgment, and by thf burning.

4:5 And the LORD will create upon every dwelling place of ,
and upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining ong fire by night: for upon all the glory shall be a defence.

4:6 And  be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time from
the heat, and for arefuge, and for a covert from storm and
from rain.

5:1 Now will I sinellbeloved a song of my beloved touching
his vineyard. My wellbeloved yard in a very fruitful hill:
5:2 And he fenced it, and gathered out tthereof, and planted
it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in t it, and
also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bh grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.

5:3 And now, O inhabitantalem, and men of Judah, judge, I
pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard. could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not
done in it?, when I looked that it should bring forth
grapes, brought it forth wi 5:5 And now go to; I will tell
you what I will do to my vineyard: I wway the hedge thereof,
and it shall be eaten up; and break down the wa, and it
shall be trodden down: 5:6 And I will lay it waste: it shall ed, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will
alsoe clouds that they rain no rain upon it.

5:7 For the vineyard of the sts is the house of Israel, and
the men of Judah his pleasant plant: aed for judgment, but
behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold  Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field,
till place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of
the earth!  5:9 rs said the LORD of hosts, Of a truth many
houses shall be desolate, end fair, without inhabitant.

5:10 Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yith, and the seed of
an homer shall yield an ephah.

5:11 Woe unto them up early in the morning, that they may
follow strong drink; that contnight, till wine inflame
them!  5:12 And the harp, and the viol, the td pipe, and
wine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work ofneither consider the operation of his hands.

5:13 Therefore my peopleinto captivity, because they have no
knowledge: and their honourable mished, and their multitude
dried up with thirst.

5:14 Therefore hell arged herself, and opened her mouth
without measure: and their glory, multitude, and their pomp,
and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into id the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall
be humbhe eyes of the lofty shall be humbled: 5:16 But the
LORD of hosts shalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall
be sanctified in righteous7 Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste
places oones shall strangers eat.

5:18 Woe unto them that draw iniquity with anity, and sin as
it were with a cart rope: 5:19 That say, Let him makand
hasten his work, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the Hosrael draw nigh and come, that we may know it!  5:20 Woe unto
them thal good, and good evil; that put darkness for light,
and light for dark put bitter for sweet, and sweet for
bitter!  5:21 Woe unto them that in their own eyes, and
prudent in their own sight!  5:22 Woe unto themmighty to
drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink: 5:23tify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the
rigm him!  5:24 Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble,
and the flame chaff, so their root shall be as
rottenness, and their blossom shallt: because they have
cast away the law of the LORD of hosts, and despiord of the
Holy One of Israel.

5:25 Therefore is the anger of the LORagainst his people,
and he hath stretched forth his hand against them,smitten
them: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn st of the streets.

For all this his anger is not turned away, but histretched
out still.

5:26 And he will lift up an ensign to the nations and will
hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they e
with speed swiftly: 5:27 None shall be weary nor stumble among them;l slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins
be loosedlatchet of their shoes be broken: 5:28 Whose arrows
are sharp, and allent, their horses’ hoofs shall be
counted like flint, and their wheewhirlwind: 5:29 Their
roaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar liions: yea,
they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry afe, and none shall deliver it.

5:30 And in that day they shall roar em like the roaring of
the sea: and if one look unto the land, behold nd sorrow,
and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.

6:1 In tat king Uzziah died I saw also the LORD sitting upon
a throne, high anp, and his train filled the temple.

6:2 Above it stood the seraphims:had six wings; with twain
he covered his face, and with twain he coveret, and with
twain he did fly.

6:3 And one cried unto another, and saoly, holy, is the
LORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried,
and the holed with smoke.

6:5 Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because  of
unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts.

6:6 Then flew one of the unto me, having a live coal in his
hand, which he had taken with the  off the altar: 6:7 And he
laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hd thy lips; and
thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.

6:8d the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and
who will go fo said I, Here am I; send me.

6:9 And he said, Go, and tell this peopl indeed, but
understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not.

6:1heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and
shut their eyhey see with their eyes, and hear with their
ears, and understand withrt, and convert, and be healed.

6:11 Then said I, Lord, how long? Anded, Until the cities be
wasted without inhabitant, and the houses withand the land be
utterly desolate, 6:12 And the LORD have removed men fnd
there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land.

6:13 But yet ll be a tenth, and it shall return, and shall be
eaten: as a teil treen oak, whose substance is in them, when
they cast their leaves: so the shall be the substance
thereof.

7:1 And it came to pass in the days e son of Jotham, the son
of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king and Pekah the
son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalagainst it, but could not prevail against it.

7:2 And it was told the David, saying, Syria is confederate
with Ephraim. And his heart was mhe heart of his people, as
the trees of the wood are moved with the wiThen said the LORD unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou,
and Sb thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool
in the highway ller’s field; 7:4 And say unto him, Take heed,
and be quiet; fear no be fainthearted for the two tails of
these smoking firebrands, for thger of Rezin with Syria,
and of the son of Remaliah.

7:5 Because Syri and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil
counsel against thee, saying us go up against Judah, and vex
it, and let us make a breach therein d set a king in the
midst of it, even the son of Tabeal: 7:7 Thus sait GOD, It
shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass.

7:8 For the ria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is
Rezin; and within threescve years shall Ephraim be broken,
that it be not a people.

7:9 And thEphraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is
Remaliah’s son. If yeeve, surely ye shall not be
established.

7:10 Moreover the LORD spakehaz, saying, 7:11 Ask thee a
sign of the LORD thy God; ask it either ih, or in the height
above.

7:12 But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neithetempt the LORD.

7:13 And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David; Is ihing
for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?  7:14 Therefrd himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall
conceive, andon, and shall call his name Immanuel.

7:15 Butter and honey shall he he may know to refuse the
evil, and choose the good.

7:16 For before  shall know to refuse the evil, and choose
the good, the land that thot shall be forsaken of both her
kings.

7:17 The LORD shall bring uponupon thy people, and upon thy
father’s house, days that have not comhe day that Ephraim
departed from Judah; even the king of Assyria.

7:shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall hiss
for the fly tthe uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and
for the bee that is in f Assyria.

7:19 And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the
valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upoes.

7:20 In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hiy, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head,
and thehe feet: and it shall also consume the beard.

7:21 And it shall come  that day, that a man shall nourish a
young cow, and two sheep; 7:22 Al come to pass, for the
abundance of milk that they shall give he shaler: for butter
and honey shall every one eat that is left in the land. it shall come to pass in that day, that every place shall be,
where ta thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, it shall
even be for brierrns.

7:24 With arrows and with bows shall men come thither; because ad shall become briers and thorns.

7:25 And on all hills that shall beth the mattock, there
shall not come thither the fear of briers and th it shall be
for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of lee.

8:1 Moreover the LORD said unto me, Take thee a great roll, and wr with a man’s pen concerning Mahershalalhashbaz.

8:2 And I took unthful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest,
and Zechariah the son of Jh.

8:3 And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a n said the LORD to me, Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz.

8:4 For befold shall have knowledge to cry, My father, and
my mother, the riches os and the spoil of Samaria shall be
taken away before the king of AssyThe LORD spake also unto me again, saying, 8:6 Forasmuch as this
peoplh the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in
Rezin and Remaln; 8:7 Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth
up upon them the wateriver, strong and many, even the king
of Assyria, and all his glory: an come up over all his
channels, and go over all his banks: 8:8 And he through
Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to tand the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy
landel.

8:9 Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in
d give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye
shall be ieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in
pieces.

8:10 Take cether, and it shall come to nought; speak the
word, and it shall not sGod is with us.

8:11 For the LORD spake thus to me with a strong handructed
me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying, 8:not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A
confeither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.

8:13 Sanctify the LORD of hof; and let him be your fear, and
let him be your dread.

8:14 And he sr a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and
for a rock of offence e houses of Israel, for a gin and for
a snare to the inhabitants of Je8:15 And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and
band be taken.

8:16 Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disci7 And I will wait upon the LORD, that hideth his face from the
house od I will look for him.

8:18 Behold, I and the children whom the LORD me are for
signs and for wonders in Israel from the LORD of hosts, whih
in mount Zion.

8:19 And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto theliar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: should
not eek unto their God? for the living to the dead?  8:20 To
the law and timony: if they speak not according to this
word, it is because there i in them.

8:21 And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hun
shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret
t and curse their king and their God, and look upward.

8:22 And they sunto the earth; and behold trouble and
darkness, dimness of anguish; ahall be driven to darkness.

9:1 Nevertheless the dimness shall not beas in her vexation,
when at the first he lightly afflicted the land ofnd the
land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict hery of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations.

9:2 The peopled in darkness have seen a great light: they
that dwell in the land of of death, upon them hath the
light shined.

9:3 Thou hast multiplied , and not increased the joy: they
joy before thee according to the joy, and as men rejoice
when they divide the spoil.

9:4 For thou hast brke of his burden, and the staff of his
shoulder, the rod of his oppresn the day of Midian.

9:5 For every battle of the warrior is with conf noise, and
garments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning af
fire.

9:6 For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and nment shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called
Wonderfounsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The
Prince of Peacef the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end,
uponne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to
establish it wit and with justice from henceforth even for
ever. The zeal of the LORD will perform this.

9:8 The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it hath on Israel.

9:9 And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inf
Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart, 9:10 The briclen down, but we will build with hewn stones: the sycomores are
cut dowill change them into cedars.

9:11 Therefore the LORD shall set up thes of Rezin against
him, and join his enemies together; 9:12 The Syria and the
Philistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open moll this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out
st For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them, neither do
theLORD of hosts.

9:14 Therefore the LORD will cut off from Israel head branch
and rush, in one day.

9:15 The ancient and honourable, he is tnd the prophet that
teacheth lies, he is the tail.

9:16 For the leade people cause them to err; and they that
are led of them are destroyederefore the LORD shall have no joy in their young men, neither
shall hn their fatherless and widows: for every one is an
hypocrite and an evd every mouth speaketh folly. For all
this his anger is not turned awaand is stretched out
still.

9:18 For wickedness burneth as the fire: devour the briers
and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forest, and they
shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.

9:19 Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts is the land darkened, and
the people shall be as the fuel of the fire: no man shall spare his
brother.

9:20 And he shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and he
shaeat on the left hand, and they shall not be satisfied: they
shall eat the flesh of his own arm: 9:21 Manasseh, Ephraim;
and Ephraim, Manassey together shall be against Judah. For
all this his anger is not turnet his hand is stretched out
still.

10:1 Woe unto them that decree unrcrees, and that write
grievousness which they have prescribed; 10:2 Toe the needy
from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of
that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!
hat will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the
desolation which s from far? to whom will ye flee for help?
and where will ye leave your4 Without me they shall bow
down under the prisoners, and they shall fhe slain. For all
this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is sut
still.

10:5 O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in th indignation.

10:6 I will send him against an hypocritical nation, anpeople of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, and toprey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.

10:7 Howbeneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but
it is in his heart tand cut off nations not a few.

10:8 For he saith, Are not my princes kings?  10:9 Is not
Calno as Carchemish? is not Hamath as Arpad? is noas
Damascus?  10:10 As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, aaven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria; 10:11
Shall I ave done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to
Jerusalem and her idols?erefore it shall come to pass, that
when the Lord hath performed his wupon mount Zion and on
Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stoutthe king of
Assyria, and the glory of his high looks.

10:13 For he saBy the strength of my hand I have done it, and by
my wisdom; for I am nd I have removed the bounds of the
people, and have robbed their treaI have put down the
inhabitants like a valiant man: 10:14 And my hand nd as a nest
the riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs that have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing, the mouth, or peeped.

10:15 Shall the axe boast itself against him ttherewith? or
shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it
rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the
st lift up itself, as if it were no wood.

10:16 Therefore shall the Lord of hosts, send among his fat
ones leanness; and under his glory he se a burning like the
burning of a fire.

10:17 And the light of Israelor a fire, and his Holy One
for a flame: and it shall burn and devour and his briers in
one day; 10:18 And shall consume the glory of his fof his
fruitful field, both soul and body: and they shall be as when a
earer fainteth.

10:19 And the rest of the trees of his forest shall b a
child may write them.

10:20 And it shall come to pass in that day,emnant of
Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shallain stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay upon the LORD, the
Hf Israel, in truth.

10:21 The remnant shall return, even the remnant to the
mighty God.

10:22 For though thy people Israel be as the sand  yet a
remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overighteousness.

10:23 For the Lord GOD of hosts shall make a consumptietermined, in the midst of all the land.

10:24 Therefore thus saith tD of hosts, O my people that
dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the As shall smite thee
with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee manner
of Egypt.

10:25 For yet a very little while, and the indignatease,
and mine anger in their destruction.

10:26 And the LORD of hostr up a scourge for him according
to the slaughter of Midian at the rocand as his rod was
upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the mannt.

10:27 And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shallaway from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and
the yo destroyed because of the anointing.

10:28 He is come to Aiath, he isMigron; at Michmash he hath
laid up his carriages: 10:29 They are goneassage: they have
taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramah is afraid; Gibl is
fled.

10:30 Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim: cause it tounto Laish, O poor Anathoth.

10:31 Madmenah is removed; the inhabitanm gather themselves
to flee.

10:32 As yet shall he remain at Nob thathall shake his hand
against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hillem.

10:33 Behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, shall lop the bough w: and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down, and the
haughty shaled.

10:34 And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with ironon shall fall by a mighty one.

11:1 And there shall come forth a rod  stem of Jesse, and a
Branch shall grow out of his roots: 11:2 And the the LORD
shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear
of the  And shall make him of quick understanding in the
fear of the LORD: an not judge after the sight of his eyes,
neither reprove after the hear 11:4 But with
righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove withr the
meek of the earth: and he shall smite the earth: with the rod of and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.

11:5 And rss shall be the girdle of his loins, and
faithfulness the girdle of hi11:6 The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall
lih the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling
together; ae child shall lead them.

11:7 And the cow and the bear shall feed; th ones shall lie
down together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ond the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the
weanedl put his hand on the cockatrice’ den.

11:9 They shall not hurt norn all my holy mountain: for the
earth shall be full of the knowledge o as the waters cover
the sea.

11:10 And in that day there shall be a sse, which shall
stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gek: and
his rest shall be glorious.

11:11 And it shall come to pass inthat the Lord shall set
his hand again the second time to recover the his people,
which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and froand from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and
frnds of the sea.

11:12 And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, ssemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of
Jthe four corners of the earth.

11:13 The envy also of Ephraim shall dhe adversaries of
Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judahh shall
not vex Ephraim.

11:14 But they shall fly upon the shoulders listines toward
the west; they shall spoil them of the east together: y shall lay
their hand upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon sthem.

11:15 And the LORD shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egypand with his mighty wind shall he shake his hand over the river,
and se it in the seven streams, and make men go over dryshod.

11:16 And the an highway for the remnant of his people,
which shall be left, from ike as it was to Israel in the day
that he came up out of the land of :1 And in that day thou shalt say, O LORD, I will praise thee:
though angry with me, thine anger is turned away, and thou
comfortedst me.

1 God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid: for
the LORD JE strength and my song; he also is become my
salvation.

12:3 Thereforeshall ye draw water out of the wells of
salvation.

12:4 And in that de say, Praise the LORD, call upon his
name, declare his doings among tmake mention that his name
is exalted.

12:5 Sing unto the LORD; for h excellent things: this is
known in all the earth.

12:6 Cry out and s inhabitant of Zion: for great is the Holy
One of Israel in the midst 13:1 The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

13:up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto
them, shake tat they may go into the gates of the nobles.

13:3 I have commanded myd ones, I have also called my mighty
ones for mine anger, even them th in my highness.

13:4 The noise of a multitude in the mountains, likereat
people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered
to LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.

13:5 They come from ry, from the end of heaven, even the
LORD, and the weapons of his indio destroy the whole land.

13:6 Howl ye; for the day of the LORD is atshall come as a
destruction from the Almighty.

13:7 Therefore shall a faint, and every man’s heart shall
melt: 13:8 And they shall be afr and sorrows shall take hold
of them; they shall be in pain as a womanaileth: they shall
be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as f3:9 Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath and
fier lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the
sinners thereof out o0 For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not
givht: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and
the moon shall ner light to shine.

13:11 And I will punish the world for their evil, ked for
their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud tod will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.

13:12 I will make a mous than fine gold; even a man than
the golden wedge of Ophir.

13:13 ill shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove
out of her place, in of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of
his fierce anger.

13:14 And  as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man
taketh up: they shall ern to his own people, and flee every
one into his own land.

13:15 Evet is found shall be thrust through; and every one
that is joined unto  fall by the sword.

13:16 Their children also shall be dashed to piecheir eyes;
their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.

1d, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not
regard silvefor gold, they shall not delight in it.

13:18 Their bows also shall dung men to pieces; and they
shall have no pity on the fruit of the woms shall not
spare children.

13:19 And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms,of the Chaldees’
excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom an

13:20 It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there;
neither shherds make their fold there.

13:21 But wild beasts of the desert shal; and their houses
shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall , and
satyrs shall dance there.

13:22 And the wild beasts of the isla cry in their desolate
houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: e is near to
come, and her days shall not be prolonged.

14:1 For the have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose
Israel, and set them in their and the strangers shall be
joined with them, and they shall cleave toof Jacob.

14:2 And the people shall take them, and bring them to theind the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD for
nd handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whose
captives they wey shall rule over their oppressors.

14:3 And it shall come to pass ithat the LORD shall give
thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, the hard
bondage wherein thou wast made to serve, 14:4 That thou shalis proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath the
oppressothe golden city ceased!  14:5 The LORD hath broken
the staff of the wie sceptre of the rulers.

14:6 He who smote the people in wrath with a stroke, he that
ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none h14:7 The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth into
s4:8 Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon,
saythou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.

14:9 Hell from bmoved for thee to meet thee at thy coming:
it stirreth up the dead forn all the chief ones of the
earth; it hath raised up from their throneings of the
nations.

14:10 All they shall speak and say unto thee, Ar become
weak as we? art thou become like unto us?  14:11 Thy pomp is bn to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: the worm is spread
under the worms cover thee.

14:12 How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifere morning!
how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the14:13 For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I
my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the
mount of thtion, in the sides of the north: 14:14 I will
ascend above the heightsds; I will be like the most High.

14:15 Yet thou shalt be brought dowto the sides of the pit.

14:16 They that see thee shall narrowly look and consider
thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tredid
shake kingdoms; 14:17 That made the world as a wilderness, and
des cities thereof; that opened not the house of his
prisoners?  14:18 Algs of the nations, even all of them, lie
in glory, every one in his ow4:19 But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch,
andiment of those that are slain, thrust through with a
sword, that go dostones of the pit; as a carcase trodden
under feet.

14:20 Thou shalt ned with them in burial, because thou hast
destroyed thy land, and slale: the seed of evildoers shall
never be renowned.

14:21 Prepare slauhis children for the iniquity of their
fathers; that they do not rise,ss the land, nor fill the
face of the world with cities.

14:22 For I p against them, saith the LORD of hosts, and
cut off from Babylon the nt, and son, and nephew, saith
the LORD.

14:23 I will also make it a  for the bittern, and pools of
water: and I will sweep it with the besruction, saith the
LORD of hosts.

14:24 The LORD of hosts hath sworn,rely as I have thought,
so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposall it stand:
14:25 That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upoins
tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, ann depart from off their shoulders.

14:26 This is the purpose that is sed upon the whole earth: and
this is the hand that is stretched out u nations.

14:27 For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall di
and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?  14:28 In
hat king Ahaz died was this burden.

14:29 Rejoice not thou, whole Palause the rod of him that
smote thee is broken: for out of the serpenthall come forth a
cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying se:30 And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall
lie ety: and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall
slay thy remnaHowl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved:
for tcome from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone
in his appointed 2 What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? That
the LOnded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in
it.

15:1 The burb. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laid
waste, and brought to silenin the night Kir of Moab is
laid waste, and brought to silence; 15:2 Hp to Bajith, and
to Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl oand
over Medeba: on all their heads shall be baldness, and every beard
15:3 In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: on
ttheir houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl,
weeping abun:4 And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heard
evenz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out;
his life shall s unto him.

15:5 My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives shallZoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhith
wg shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim they
shall raise up estruction.

15:6 For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing.

15:7 Thereforance they have gotten, and that which they
have laid up, shall they cao the brook of the willows.

15:8 For the cry is gone round about the Moab; the howling
thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Be5:9 For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring
mimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon the
remnant of th:1 Send ye the lamb to the ruler of the land from Sela to the
wildernehe mount of the daughter of Zion.

16:2 For it shall be, that, as a wacast out of the nest,
so the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords o16:3 Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in
t the noonday; hide the outcasts; bewray not him that
wandereth.

16:4 tcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to them
from the face o the spoiler: for the extortioner is at an end, the
spoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.

16:5 And in mercy shall the throne be established: and he shall sit
upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seeking
judgment, and hasting righteousss.

16:6 We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud: even oghtiness, and his pride, and his wrath: but his lies shall not be
so.
fore shall Moab howl for Moab, every one shall howl: for the
foundatioreseth shall ye mourn; surely they are stricken.

16:8 For the fields languish, and the vine of Sibmah: the
lords of the heathen have brokenprincipal plants thereof,
they are come even unto Jazer, they wanderedhe wilderness:
her branches are stretched out, they are gone over the Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine of
Sibmah: r thee with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh: for
the shouting for thyts and for thy harvest is fallen.

16:10 And gladness is taken away, a of the plentiful field;
and in the vineyards there shall be no singinl there be
shouting: the treaders shall tread out no wine in their pre
have made their vintage shouting to cease.

16:11 Wherefore my bowelsnd like an harp for Moab, and mine
inward parts for Kirharesh.

16:12 all come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary on
the high placehall come to his sanctuary to pray; but he
shall not prevail.

16:13 T word that the LORD hath spoken concerning Moab since
that time.

16:1 the LORD hath spoken, saying, Within three years, as the
years of an and the glory of Moab shall be contemned, with
all that great multitud remnant shall be very small and
feeble.

17:1 The burden of Damascus.amascus is taken away from being
a city, and it shall be a ruinous heahe cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks, which
shall and none shall make them afraid.

17:3 The fortress also shall cease im, and the kingdom from
Damascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shal glory of the
children of Israel, saith the LORD of hosts.

17:4 And i it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacob
shall be made thin, anness of his flesh shall wax lean.

17:5 And it shall be as when the haathereth the corn, and
reapeth the ears with his arm; and it shall be gathereth
ears in the valley of Rephaim.

17:6 Yet gleaning grapes sha in it, as the shaking of an
olive tree, two or three berries in the tppermost bough,
four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, LORD
God of Israel.

17:7 At that day shall a man look to his Maker, es shall
have respect to the Holy One of Israel.

17:8 And he shall nothe altars, the work of his hands,
neither shall respect that which hihave made, either the
groves, or the images.

17:9 In that day shall hities be as a forsaken bough, and
an uppermost branch, which they leftf the children of
Israel: and there shall be desolation.

17:10 Becaust forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hast
not been mindful of they strength, therefore shalt thou
plant pleasant plants, and shalt set range slips: 17:11 In
the day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and iing shalt
thou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a hday of grief and of desperate sorrow.

17:12 Woe to the multitude of m which make a noise like the
noise of the seas; and to the rushing of that make a rushing
like the rushing of mighty waters!  17:13 The natiush like
the rushing of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and thlee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before
and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.

17:14 And behold at eve trouble; and before the morning he is
not.

This is the portion of tpoil us, and the lot of them that
rob us.

18:1 Woe to the land shadowings, which is beyond the rivers
of Ethiopia: 18:2 That sendeth ambasse sea, even in vessels
of bulrushes upon the waters, saying, Go, ye swers, to a
nation scattered and peeled, to a people terrible from their
hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the rivers
ed!  18:3 All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on
the earth, n he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and
when he bloweth a trumye.

18:4 For so the LORD said unto me, I will take my rest, and I wil in my dwelling place like a clear heat upon herbs, and like a
cloud oe heat of harvest.

18:5 For afore the harvest, when the bud is perfecsour
grape is ripening in the flower, he shall both cut off the sprigsng hooks, and take away and cut down the branches.

18:6 They shall beher unto the fowls of the mountains, and
to the beasts of the earth: als shall summer upon them, and
all the beasts of the earth shall winte.

18:7 In that time shall the present be brought unto the LORD of hosple scattered and peeled, and from a people terrible from
their beginnto; a nation meted out and trodden under foot,
whose land the rivers hd, to the place of the name of the
LORD of hosts, the mount Zion.

19:n of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud,
and shall comet: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at
his presence, and the hear shall melt in the midst of it.

19:2 And I will set the Egyptians agaEgyptians: and they
shall fight every one against his brother, and eveinst his
neighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.

1spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I
will destroy ththereof: and they shall seek to the idols,
and to the charmers, and tohave familiar spirits, and to
the wizards.

19:4 And the Egyptians wiler into the hand of a cruel lord;
and a fierce king shall rule over the Lord, the LORD of
hosts.

19:5 And the waters shall fail from the seiver shall be
wasted and dried up.

19:6 And they shall turn the riveray; and the brooks of
defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds shall
wither.

19:7 The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of thnd
every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and b
19:8 The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into
 shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters
shall languisoreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave
networks, shaunded.

19:10 And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all thuices and ponds for fish.

19:11 Surely the princes of Zoan are fools,el of the wise
counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye un, I
am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?  19:12 Where aree are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let them
know whatf hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.

19:13 The princes of Zoan are becomhe princes of Noph are
deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even the the stay of
the tribes thereof.

19:14 The LORD hath mingled a pervein the midst thereof:
and they have caused Egypt to err in every work s a drunken
man staggereth in his vomit.

19:15 Neither shall there beor Egypt, which the head or
tail, branch or rush, may do.

19:16 In thhall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be
afraid and fear becausehaking of the hand of the LORD of
hosts, which he shaketh over it.

19e land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one
that maketh mereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the
counsel of the LORD ofwhich he hath determined against it.

19:18 In that day shall five cite land of Egypt speak the
language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of shall be
called, The city of destruction.

19:19 In that day shall thaltar to the LORD in the midst of
the land of Egypt, and a pillar at thereof to the LORD.

19:20 And it shall be for a sign and for a witnes LORD of
hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one,
andeliver them.

19:21 And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyp
know the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea,
 vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform it.

19:22 And the LORD shall sm he shall smite and heal it: and
they shall return even to the LORD, al be intreated of them,
and shall heal them.

19:23 In that day shall highway out of Egypt to Assyria,
and the Assyrian shall come into Egype Egyptian into Assyria,
and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyri4 In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with
Assyria, esing in the midst of the land: 19:25 Whom the LORD
of hosts shall blesBlessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria
the work of my hands, and Israheritance.

20:1 In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, (when Sargog
of Assyria sent him,) and fought against Ashdod, and took it; 20:2 Atime spake the LORD by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go and
loose th from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thy
foot. And he did sonaked and barefoot.

20:3 And the LORD said, Like as my servant Isaiahed naked
and barefoot three years for a sign and wonder upon Egypt andpia; 20:4 So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptians
prisonee Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and
barefoot, even with thks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.

20:5 And they shall be afraid anof Ethiopia their
expectation, and of Egypt their glory.

20:6 And thent of this isle shall say in that day, Behold,
such is our expectationwe flee for help to be delivered from
the king of Assyria: and how shae?  21:1 The burden of the
desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the souh; so it
cometh from the desert, from a terrible land.

21:2 A grievousion is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer
dealeth treacherouslypoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam:
besiege, O Media; all the sighing therI made to cease.

21:3 Therefore are my loins filled with pain: pangs hold
upon me, as the pangs of a woman that travaileth: I was bowed dowearing of it; I was dismayed at the seeing of it.

21:4 My heart panteess affrighted me: the night of my
pleasure hath he turned into fear u:5 Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower, eat, drink: arise, ye
p anoint the shield.

21:6 For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Go, setn, let him
declare what he seeth.

21:7 And he saw a chariot with a cosemen, a chariot of
asses, and a chariot of camels; and he hearkened dwith much
heed: 21:8 And he cried, A lion: My lord, I stand continuallwatchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights: 21:9
d, here cometh a chariot of men, with a couple of horsemen.

And he an said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the
graven images of her h broken unto the ground.

21:10 O my threshing, and the corn of my flhich I have
heard of the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declyou.

21:11 The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchma of the night? Watchman, what of the night?  21:12 The watchman
said, g cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire,
enquire ye: return, 13 The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge,
O yling companies of Dedanim.

21:14 The inhabitants of the land of Tema ter to him that
was thirsty, they prevented with their bread him that 5 For they fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from
the bed from the grievousness of war.

21:16 For thus hath the LORD said untin a year, according to
the years of an hireling, and all the glory ofll fail: 21:17
And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty mehildren of Kedar, shall be diminished: for the LORD God of Israel
hath

22:1 The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee now, that
holly gone up to the housetops?  22:2 Thou that art full of
stirs, a t city, joyous city: thy slain men are not slain
with the sword, nor dee.

22:3 All thy rulers are fled together, they are bound by the archeat are found in thee are bound together, which have fled from
far.

22e said I, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly, labour
not to comfocause of the spoiling of the daughter of my
people.

22:5 For it is a ouble, and of treading down, and of
perplexity by the Lord GOD of hostalley of vision, breaking
down the walls, and of crying to the mountaid Elam bare the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, and
Kir uncoshield.

22:7 And it shall come to pass, that thy choicest valleys shaof chariots, and the horsemen shall set themselves in array at
the gatnd he discovered the covering of Judah, and thou didst look in
that damour of the house of the forest.

22:9 Ye have seen also the breaches y of David, that they
are many: and ye gathered together the waters of pool.

22:10 And ye have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and the hoe broken down to fortify the wall.

22:11 Ye made also a ditch betweenlls for the water of the
old pool: but ye have not looked unto the mak neither had
respect unto him that fashioned it long ago.

22:12 And i did the Lord GOD of hosts call to weeping, and
to mourning, and to ba to girding with sackcloth: 22:13 And
behold joy and gladness, slaying killing sheep, eating
flesh, and drinking wine: let us eat and drink;row we shall
die.

22:14 And it was revealed in mine ears by the LORD Surely
this iniquity shall not be purged from you till ye die, saith tGOD of hosts.

22:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, Go, get thee unasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over the house, and say, 22:16
What here? and whom hast thou here, that thou hast hewed
thee out a sepulcs he that heweth him out a sepulchre on
high, and that graveth an habi himself in a rock?  22:17
Behold, the LORD will carry thee away with ptivity, and
will surely cover thee.

22:18 He will surely violently ts thee like a ball into a
large country: there shalt thou die, and theriots of thy
glory shall be the shame of thy lord’s house.

22:19 Anrive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall
he pull thee downnd it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my
servant Elia of Hilkiah: 22:21 And I will clothe him with
thy robe, and strengthenhy girdle, and I will commit thy
government into his hand: and he shalher to the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.

22:22y of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder;
so he shall openshall shut; and he shall shut, and none
shall open.

22:23 And I will as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be
for a glorious throne to his house.

22:24 And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his fathouse, the offspring and the issue, all vessels of small quantity,
frols of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons.

22:25 In that day, saRD of hosts, shall the nail that is
fastened in the sure place be remo be cut down, and fall; and
the burden that was upon it shall be cut oe LORD hath spoken
it.

23:1 The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarr it is laid
waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from thChittim it is revealed to them.

23:2 Be still, ye inhabitants of the  whom the merchants of
Zidon, that pass over the sea, have replenishednd by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river,
is hernd she is a mart of nations.

23:4 Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the soken, even the
strength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring fren,
neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.

23:5 Asport concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained
at the report of:6 Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle.

23:7 Ir joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? her
own feet shall afar off to sojourn.

23:8 Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, tg city,
whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honoura earth?  23:9 The LORD of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the
pride ory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of
the earth.

23:10ugh thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: there
is no more stre11 He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms:
the given a commandment against the merchant city, to
destroy the strong hf.

23:12 And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed
viter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there also
shalt thou have 23:13 Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till the
founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set up
the towe they raised up the palaces thereof; and he brought
it to ruin.

23:14ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste.

23:15 And it shalass in that day, that Tyre shall be
forgotten seventy years, accordingys of one king: after the
end of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an h16 Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been
forgottsweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be
remembered.

23:17  come to pass after the end of seventy years, that
the LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall
commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of
the earth.

23:18 And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the LORD:
it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be
for them tell before the LORD, to eat sufficiently, and for
durable clothing.

2, the LORD maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and
turneth itn, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.

24:2 And it shall b the people, so with the priest; as with
the servant, so with his masth the maid, so with her
mistress; as with the buyer, so with the selle the lender,
so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so withof
usury to him.

24:3 The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly or the
LORD hath spoken this word.

24:4 The earth mourneth and fadeth world languisheth and
fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do

24:5 The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the
everlasting6 Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell
theesolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are
burned, and few me4:7 The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearted

24:8 The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice
endoy of the harp ceaseth.

24:9 They shall not drink wine with a song; sk shall be
bitter to them that drink it.

24:10 The city of confusion  down: every house is shut up,
that no man may come in.

24:11 There ing for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened,
the mirth of the land24:12 In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with
des24:13 When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people,ll be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning
grapes whenge is done.

24:14 They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing fory
of the LORD, they shall cry aloud from the sea.

24:15 Wherefore gloe LORD in the fires, even the name of the
LORD God of Israel in the is sea.

24:16 From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto
me! erous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, the
treacherous dealers hery treacherously.

24:17 Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon tabitant of
the earth.

24:18 And it shall come to pass, that he who flhe noise of
the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up oudst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from on
hin, and the foundations of the earth do shake.

24:19 The earth is uttedown, the earth is clean dissolved,
the earth is moved exceedingly.

2earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall be
removed like and the transgression thereof shall be heavy
upon it; and it shall fa rise again.

24:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LOnish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings of
the  the earth.

24:22 And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners ad
in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many days
 be visited.

24:23 Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ash the
LORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and bencients gloriously.

25:1 O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, ise thy
name; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of oldhfulness and truth.

25:2 For thou hast made of a city an heap; of a dty a ruin:
a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be builerefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of the
terribleshall fear thee.

25:4 For thou hast been a strength to the poor, a stthe
needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the
 the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the
wall.

25:5  bring down the noise of strangers, as the heat in a
dry place; even tth the shadow of a cloud: the branch of the
terrible ones shall be bro
25:6 And in this mountain shall the LORD of hosts make unto all peoplf fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things
full of marres on the lees well refined.

25:7 And he will destroy in this mountai of the covering
cast over all people, and the vail that is spread ovens.

25:8 He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord GOD will wars from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he
take awall the earth: for the LORD hath spoken it.

25:9 And it shall be said y, Lo, this is our God; we have
waited for him, and he will save us: tLORD; we have waited
for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salva0 For in this mountain shall the hand of the LORD rest, and Moab
shalldown under him, even as straw is trodden down for the
dunghill.

25:11ll spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he
that swimmeth spth his hands to swim: and he shall bring
down their pride together wits of their hands.

25:12 And the fortress of the high fort of thy wallbring
down, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust.

26:1  shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We have
a strong city; will God appoint for walls and bulwarks.

26:2 Open ye the gates, thateous nation which keepeth the
truth may enter in.

26:3 Thou wilt keepeace, whose mind is stayed on
thee: because he trusteth in thee.

26:4n the LORD for ever: for in the LORD JEHOVAH is
everlasting strength:  bringeth down them that dwell on
high; the lofty city, he layeth it lth it low, even to the
ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.

26:6 ll tread it down, even the feet of the poor, and the
steps of the neede way of the just is uprightness: thou, most upright, dost
weigh the pjust.

26:8 Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O LORD, have we waited fhe desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of
thee.
my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my
spirit within mek thee early: for when thy judgments are in
the earth, the inhabitantrld will learn righteousness.

26:10 Let favour be shewed to the wicke he not learn
righteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal ud
will not behold the majesty of the LORD.

26:11 LORD, when thy hand p, they will not see: but they
shall see, and be ashamed for their enveople; yea, the fire
of thine enemies shall devour them.

26:12 LORD,  ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wrought
all our works in us.
RD our God, other lords beside thee have had dominion over
us: but by will we make mention of thy name.

26:14 They are dead, they shall notare deceased, they
shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and des, and
made all their memory to perish.

26:15 Thou hast increased the LORD, thou hast increased the
nation: thou art glorified: thou hadst rar unto all the
ends of the earth.

26:16 LORD, in trouble have they v they poured out a
prayer when thy chastening was upon them.

26:17 Lian with child, that draweth near the time of her
delivery, is in pain,h out in her pangs; so have we been in
thy sight, O LORD.

26:18 We hah child, we have been in pain, we have as it
were brought forth wind;  wrought any deliverance in the
earth; neither have the inhabitants offallen.

26:19 Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shaise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the
dew nd the earth shall cast out the dead.

26:20 Come, my people, enter th chambers, and shut thy
doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for ent, until
the indignation be overpast.

26:21 For, behold, the LORD cof his place to punish the
inhabitants of the earth for their iniquityh also shall
disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.

2 day the LORD with his sore and great and strong sword
shall punish lee piercing serpent, even leviathan that
crooked serpent; and he shall agon that is in the sea.

27:2 In that day sing ye unto her, A vineyarne.

27:3 I the LORD do keep it; I will water it every moment: lest an I will keep it night and day.

27:4 Fury is not in me: who would set  and thorns against me
in battle? I would go through them, I would burther.

27:5 Or let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peac and he shall make peace with me.

27:6 He shall cause them that come o take root: Israel shall
blossom and bud, and fill the face of the wouit.

27:7 Hath he smitten him, as he smote those that smote him? or i according to the slaughter of them that are slain by him?  27:8
In men it shooteth forth, thou wilt debate with it: he
stayeth his rough wiay of the east wind.

27:9 By this therefore shall the iniquity of Jaced; and this
is all the fruit to take away his sin; when he maketh allf the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder, the groves and
iall not stand up.

27:10 Yet the defenced city shall be desolate, and tion
forsaken, and left like a wilderness: there shall the calf feed, hall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof.

27:11 When the bof are withered, they shall be broken off:
the women come, and set themor it is a people of no
understanding: therefore he that made them wilmercy on
them, and he that formed them will shew them no favour.

27:1all come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall beat
off from the che river unto the stream of Egypt, and ye
shall be gathered one by one,dren of Israel.

27:13 And it shall come to pass in that day, that theshall be blown, and they shall come which were ready to perish in the
ia, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and shall
worship the LORD y mount at Jerusalem.

28:1 Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkardim, whose
glorious beauty is a fading flower, which are on the head ofalleys of them that are overcome with wine!  28:2 Behold, the Lord
hatand strong one, which as a tempest of hail and a
destroying storm, as mighty waters overflowing, shall cast
down to the earth with the hand.rown of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trodden
under feet: he glorious beauty, which is on the head of the
fat valley, shall be aower, and as the hasty fruit before
the summer; which when he that looit seeth, while it is yet
in his hand he eateth it up.

28:5 In that dhe LORD of hosts be for a crown of glory, and
for a diadem of beauty, esidue of his people, 28:6 And for a
spirit of judgment to him that sidgment, and for strength
to them that turn the battle to the gate.

28 also have erred through wine, and through strong drink
are out of theriest and the prophet have erred through
strong drink, they are swalloine, they are out of the way
through strong drink; they err in vision,le in judgment.

28:8 For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness,ere is
no place clean.

28:9 Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom s to
understand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawnbreasts.

28:10 For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little: 28:11
For wig lips and another tongue will he speak to this
people.

28:12 To whomhis is the rest wherewith ye may cause the
weary to rest; and this is ing: yet they would not hear.

28:13 But the word of the LORD was untoept upon precept,
precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon linettle,
and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and band snared, and taken.

28:14 Wherefore hear the word of the LORD, ye n, that rule
this people which is in Jerusalem.

28:15 Because ye havehave made a covenant with death, and
with hell are we at agreement; whflowing scourge shall pass
through, it shall not come unto us: for we es our refuge,
and under falsehood have we hid ourselves: 28:16 Therefaith
the Lord GOD, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a t a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believeth
shall nte.

28:17 Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to : and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the
waters sha the hiding place.

28:18 And your covenant with death shall be disannyour
agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourges through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.

28:19 From the time t forth it shall take you: for morning
by morning shall it pass over, by night: and it shall be a
vexation only to understand the report.

28 bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on
it: and the covrower than that he can wrap himself in it.

28:21 For the LORD shall rin mount Perazim, he shall be
wroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that hs work, his strange
work; and bring to pass his act, his strange act.
 therefore be ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong:
for I harom the Lord GOD of hosts a consumption, even
determined upon the whol8:23 Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.

28:e plowman plow all day to sow? doth he open and break the
clods of his8:25 When he hath made plain the face thereof,
doth he not cast abroades, and scatter the cummin, and cast
in the principal wheat and the aprley and the rie in their
place?  28:26 For his God doth instruct him on, and doth
teach him.

28:27 For the fitches are not threshed with a instrument,
neither is a cart wheel turned about upon the cummin; butes
are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.

28:28 Breabruised; because he will not ever be threshing it,
nor break it with t his cart, nor bruise it with his
horsemen.

28:29 This also cometh foe LORD of hosts, which is
wonderful in counsel, and excellent in workiWoe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye year
to yeasacrifices.

29:2 Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be heavinrrow: and it shall be unto me as Ariel.

29:3 And I will camp against  about, and will lay siege
against thee with a mount, and I will raiseainst thee.

29:4 And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out und, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voice
shall one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground,
and thy speech sha out of the dust.

29:5 Moreover the multitude of thy strangers shall ll dust,
and the multitude of the terrible ones shall be as chaff thatay: yea, it shall be at an instant suddenly.

29:6 Thou shalt be visitLORD of hosts with thunder, and with
earthquake, and great noise, with tempest, and the flame of
devouring fire.

29:7 And the multitude of ions that fight against Ariel,
even all that fight against her and her and that distress
her, shall be as a dream of a night vision.

29:8 In be as when an hungry man dreameth, and, behold, he
eateth; but he aw his soul is empty: or as when a thirsty
man dreameth, and, behold, he but he awaketh, and, behold,
he is faint, and his soul hath appetite:the multitude of all
the nations be, that fight against mount Zion.

2urselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry: they are
drunken, but not wthey stagger, but not with strong drink.

29:10 For the LORD hath pourn you the spirit of deep sleep,
and hath closed your eyes: the prophet rulers, the seers
hath he covered.

29:11 And the vision of all is beyou as the words of a book
that is sealed, which men deliver to one thed, saying, Read
this, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is :12 And
the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Readray thee: and he saith, I am not learned.

29:13 Wherefore the Lord sauch as this people draw near me
with their mouth, and with their lips me, but have removed
their heart far from me, and their fear toward me by the
precept of men: 29:14 Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do s work among this people, even a marvellous work and a
wonder: for the their wise men shall perish, and the
understanding of their prudent m hid.

29:15 Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from td their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? and
who kno9:16 Surely your turning of things upside down shall
be esteemed as ths clay: for shall the work say of him that
made it, He made me not? the thing framed say of him that
framed it, He had no understanding?   not yet a very little
while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruit and the
fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest?  29:18 And in tall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind
shat of obscurity, and out of darkness.

29:19 The meek also shall increay in the LORD, and the poor
among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of29:20 For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner is
cod all that watch for iniquity are cut off: 29:21 That make
a man an of a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth
in the gate, and turn  the just for a thing of nought.

29:22 Therefore thus saith the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning
the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be ashamed, neither shall his
face now wax pale.

29:23 But when he seeth his children, the work of mine hands, in the
midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy One
of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.

29:24 They also that erred in spirit shall e to understanding, and
they that murmured shall learn doctrine.

30:1the rebellious children, saith the LORD, that take
counsel, but not ofhat cover with a covering, but not of my
spirit, that they may add sin0:2 That walk to go down into
Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; ten themselves in the
strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow o30:3
Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the tr shadow of Egypt your confusion.

30:4 For his princes were at Zoan, aassadors came to Hanes.

30:5 They were all ashamed of a people that crofit them, nor
be an help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproacrden of the beasts of the south: into the land of trouble
and anguish,e come the young and old lion, the viper and
fiery flying serpent, therry their riches upon the shoulders
of young asses, and their treasure bunches of camels, to a
people that shall not profit them.

30:7 For ns shall help in vain, and to no purpose:
therefore have I cried conce, Their strength is to sit
still.

30:8 Now go, write it before them i and note it in a book,
that it may be for the time to come for ever a:9 That this
is a rebellious people, lying children, children that wilr
the law of the LORD: 30:10 Which say to the seers, See not; and to ts, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth
things, proeits: 30:11 Get you out of the way, turn aside out
of the path, cause e of Israel to cease from before us.

30:12 Wherefore thus saith the H Israel, Because ye despise
this word, and trust in oppression and per, and stay thereon:
30:13 Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as aeady to
fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddeinstant.

30:14 And he shall break it as the breaking of the pottersat is broken in pieces; he shall not spare: so that there shall not
bethe bursting of it a sherd to take fire from the hearth,
or to take wa out of the pit.

30:15 For thus saith the Lord GOD, the Holy One of I
returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence
our strength: and ye would not.

30:16 But ye said, No; for we will flrses; therefore shall
ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; there they that
pursue you be swift.

30:17 One thousand shall flee at the  one; at the rebuke of
five shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacontop of a
mountain, and as an ensign on an hill.

30:18 And therefore wRD wait, that he may be gracious unto
you, and therefore will he be exat he may have mercy upon
you: for the LORD is a God of judgment: blesll they that wait
for him.

30:19 For the people shall dwell in Zion asalem: thou shalt weep
no more: he will be very gracious unto thee at of thy cry;
when he shall hear it, he will answer thee.

30:20 And thoord give you the bread of adversity, and the
water of affliction, yet thy teachers be removed into a
corner any more, but thine eyes shall shers: 30:21 And
thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, Thisy,
walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to 30:22 Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of
silverornament of thy molten images of gold: thou shalt cast
them away as a cloth; thou shalt say unto it, Get thee
hence.

30:23 Then shall he gin of thy seed, that thou shalt sow the
ground withal; and bread of thef the earth, and it shall be
fat and plenteous: in that day shall thy  in large
pastures.

30:24 The oxen likewise and the young asses that und shall
eat clean provender, which hath been winnowed with the shove
the fan.

30:25 And there shall be upon every high mountain, and uponh
hill, rivers and streams of waters in the day of the great slaughter towers fall.

30:26 Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the li sun,
and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of sevn the day that the LORD bindeth up the breach of his people,
and healee of their wound.

30:27 Behold, the name of the LORD cometh from far,th his
anger, and the burden thereof is heavy: his lips are full of
in, and his tongue as a devouring fire: 30:28 And his breath,
as an oveream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, to
sift the nations with th vanity: and there shall be a bridle
in the jaws of the people, causinerr.

30:29 Ye shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnit; and gladness of heart, as when one goeth with a pipe to come
into th of the LORD, to the mighty One of Israel.

30:30 And the LORD shall clorious voice to be heard, and
shall shew the lighting down of his arm indignation of his
anger, and with the flame of a devouring fire, witng, and
tempest, and hailstones.

30:31 For through the voice of the Lthe Assyrian be beaten
down, which smote with a rod.

30:32 And in eveere the grounded staff shall pass, which
the LORD shall lay upon him,  tabrets and harps: and
in battles of shaking will he fight with it.

r Tophet is ordained of old; yea, for the king it is prepared;
he hathep and large: the pile thereof is fire and much
wood; the breath of thke a stream of brimstone, doth kindle
it.

31:1 Woe to them that go dofor help; and stay on horses,
and trust in chariots, because they are in horsemen, because
they are very strong; but they look not unto the f Israel,
neither seek the LORD!  31:2 Yet he also is wise, and will b
and will not call back his words: but will arise against the house ofers, and against the help of them that work iniquity.

31:3 Now the Ege men, and not God; and their horses flesh,
and not spirit. When the L stretch out his hand, both he that
helpeth shall fall, and he that isll fall down, and they
all shall fail together.

31:4 For thus hath thken unto me, Like as the lion and the
young lion roaring on his prey, titude of shepherds is
called forth against him, he will not be afraidvoice, nor
abase himself for the noise of them: so shall the LORD of hdown to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof.

31:5 As birdso will the LORD of hosts defend Jerusalem;
defending also he will deli passing over he will preserve
it.

31:6 Turn ye unto him from whom thn of Israel have deeply
revolted.

31:7 For in that day every man shaly his idols of silver,
and his idols of gold, which your own hands havnto you for a
sin.

31:8 Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, ty man;
and the sword, not of a mean man, shall devour him: but he shaom the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited.

31:9 And he shar to his strong hold for fear, and his
princes shall be afraid of the th the LORD, whose fire is
in Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.

32: king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall
rule in judgment a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covert
from th as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of
a great rock in a.

32:3 And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears o hear shall hearken.

32:4 The heart also of the rash shall understand and the
tongue of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly.

32e person shall be no more called liberal, nor the churl
said to be bou:6 For the vile person will speak villany, and his heart will work
inipractise hypocrisy, and to utter error against the LORD,
to make emptyof the hungry, and he will cause the drink of
the thirsty to fail.

32truments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth wicked
devices to desoor with lying words, even when the needy
speaketh right.

32:8 But thdeviseth liberal things; and by liberal things
shall he stand.

32:9 R women that are at ease; hear my voice, ye careless
daughters; give ea speech.

32:10 Many days and years shall ye be troubled, ye careless the vintage shall fail, the gathering shall not come.

32:11 Tremble, at are at ease; be troubled, ye careless
ones: strip you, and make yougird sackcloth upon your
loins.

32:12 They shall lament for the teatspleasant fields, for
the fruitful vine.

32:13 Upon the land of my peocome up thorns and briers; yea,
upon all the houses of joy in the joyo2:14 Because the
palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city ft;
the forts and towers shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild assure of flocks; 32:15 Until the spirit be poured upon us from on
high, lderness be a fruitful field, and the fruitful field
be counted for a 2:16 Then judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness
re fruitful field.

32:17 And the work of righteousness shall be peace; ect of
righteousness quietness and assurance for ever.

32:18 And my pl dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in sure
dwellings, and in quietlaces; 32:19 When it shall hail,
coming down on the forest; and the cie low in a low place.

32:20 Blessed are ye that sow beside all watersorth
thither the feet of the ox and the ass.

33:1 Woe to thee that spd thou wast not spoiled; and dealest
treacherously, and they dealt notsly with thee! when thou
shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; shalt make
an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously33:2 O LORD, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou
thery morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble.

33:3 At the no tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of
thyself the nations were.

33:4 And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of the
cats the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon
them.

33:5 The lted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion
with judgment and rs.

33:6 And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times,gth of salvation: the fear of the LORD is his treasure.

33:7 Behold, ant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors of
peace shall weep bitterhe highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath broken
the ce hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man.

33:9 The earth mournnguisheth: Lebanon is ashamed and hewn
down: Sharon is like a wilderneashan and Carmel shake off
their fruits.

33:10 Now will I rise, saithnow will I be exalted; now will
I lift up myself.

33:11 Ye shall conc, ye shall bring forth stubble: your
breath, as fire, shall devour yound the people shall be as the burnings of lime: as thorns cut
up shallurned in the fire.

33:13 Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done;that are
near, acknowledge my might.

33:14 The sinners in Zion are affulness hath surprised the
hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with tng fire? who
among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?  33:15 Heth
righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of
s, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that
stoppeth his eaaring of blood, and shutteth his eyes from
seeing evil; 33:16 He shall high: his place of defence shall
be the munitions of rocks: bread sha him; his waters shall
be sure.

33:17 Thine eyes shall see the king ity: they shall behold
the land that is very far off.

33:18 Thine hearditate terror. Where is the scribe? where is
the receiver? where is heted the towers?  33:19 Thou shalt
not see a fierce people, a people ofspeech than thou canst
perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canerstand.

33:20 Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyeJerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken
dow of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither
shall any of theereof be broken.

33:21 But there the glorious LORD will be unto us a road
rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neitherllant ship pass thereby.

33:22 For the LORD is our judge, the LORD isver, the LORD is
our king; he will save us.

33:23 Thy tacklings are ley could not well strengthen their
mast, they could not spread the sai the prey of a great
spoil divided; the lame take the prey.

33:24 Anditant shall not say, I am sick: the people that
dwell therein shall betheir iniquity.

34:1 Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye t the
earth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things torth of it.

34:2 For the indignation of the LORD is upon all nations,ury
upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath
delem to the slaughter.

34:3 Their slain also shall be cast out, and theshall come up
out of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted
blood.

34:4 And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the hall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall fall
downf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling fig from
the fig tree.

my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall come
down upon Idpon the people of my curse, to judgment.

34:6 The sword of the LORD iith blood, it is made fat with
fatness, and with the blood of lambs anith the fat of the
kidneys of rams: for the LORD hath a sacrifice in B a great
slaughter in the land of Idumea.

34:7 And the unicorns shallwith them, and the bullocks with
the bulls; and their land shall be solood, and their dust
made fat with fatness.

34:8 For it is the day ofs vengeance, and the year of
recompences for the controversy of Ziond the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust
thereofstone, and the land thereof shall become burning
pitch.

34:10 It shalnight nor day; the smoke thereof shall
go up for ever: from generationtion it shall lie waste; none
shall pass through it for ever and ever. the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also
and the ll dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the
line of confusionstones of emptiness.

34:12 They shall call the nobles thereof to the but none
shall be there, and all her princes shall be nothing.

34:13 shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles in
the fortresses t it shall be an habitation of dragons, and
a court for owls.

34:14 Thsts of the desert shall also meet with the wild
beasts of the island, tyr shall cry to his fellow; the
screech owl also shall rest there, an herself a place of
rest.

34:15 There shall the great owl make her neay, and hatch, and
gather under her shadow: there shall the vultures ahered,
every one with her mate.

34:16 Seek ye out of the book of the read: no one of these
shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mou commanded,
and his spirit it hath gathered them.

34:17 And he hath ct for them, and his hand hath divided it
unto them by line: they shallit for ever, from generation to
generation shall they dwell therein.

ilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and
the deseroice, and blossom as the rose.

35:2 It shall blossom abundantly, and ven with joy and
singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it,lency
of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the LORD, and ency of our God.

35:3 Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the fs.

35:4 Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not:our God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence;
he will ave you.

35:5 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the eareaf shall be unstopped.

35:6 Then shall the lame man leap as an hart,tongue of the
dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out,ms
in the desert.

35:7 And the parched ground shall become a pool, anrsty land
springs of water: in the habitation of dragons, where each lbe grass with reeds and rushes.

35:8 And an highway shall be there, a and it shall be called
The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pas but it shall
be for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall notn.

35:9 No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up
th shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk
there: 35:10 Anmed of the LORD shall return, and come to
Zion with songs and everlaston their heads: they shall
obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sig flee away.

36:1 Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hthat
Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the defenced citi, and took them.

36:2 And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lacerusalem
unto king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the cone upper pool in the highway of the fuller’s field.

36:3 Then came f him Eliakim, Hilkiah’s son, which was over
the house, and Shebna th Joah, Asaph’s son, the recorder.

36:4 And Rabshakeh said unto themye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith
the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein
thou trustest?  36:5 I say, sayest thou, (but they are but vain words)
I have counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, that
thou rebellest against me?  36:6 Lo, thou trustest in the staff of
this broken reed, on Egypt; whereon if a n, it will go into his
hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egyphat trust in
him.

36:7 But if thou say to me, We trust in the LORD ou it not
he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken awato Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar?
36:8 Noe give pledges, I pray thee, to my master the king of
Assyria, and I whee two thousand horses, if thou be able on
thy part to set riders upo:9 How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least
or’s servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and
for horsem And am I now come up without the LORD against
this land to destroy itRD said unto me, Go up against this
land, and destroy it.

36:11 Then nd Shebna and Joah unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I
pray thee, unto thy servanian language; for we understand
it: and speak not to us in the Jews’in the ears of the
people that are on the wall.

36:12 But Rabshakeh smy master sent me to thy master and to
thee to speak these words? hathent me to the men that sit
upon the wall, that they may eat their own drink their own
piss with you?  36:13 Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried d
voice in the Jews’ language, and said, Hear ye the words of the grthe king of Assyria.

36:14 Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceor he shall
not be able to deliver you.

36:15 Neither let Hezekiah maust in the LORD, saying, The
LORD will surely deliver us: this city shdelivered into the
hand of the king of Assyria.

36:16 Hearken not to or thus saith the king of Assyria,
Make an agreement with me by a presome out to me: and eat ye
every one of his vine, and every one of his nd drink ye
every one the waters of his own cistern; 36:17 Until I comyou away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a landnd vineyards.

36:18 Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, the LOliver
us.

Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out nd
of the king of Assyria?  36:19 Where are the gods of Hamath and
Arpe are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered
Samaria out of m20 Who are they among all the gods of
these lands, that have deliveredd out of my hand, that the
LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hanBut they held
their peace, and answered him not a word: for the kingment
was, saying, Answer him not.

36:22 Then came Eliakim, the son ofthat was over the
household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son the
recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the woshakeh.

37:1 And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that h clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the
house RD.

37:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna  and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth, unto
Isaiah thehe son of Amoz.

37:3 And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, Thi day of
trouble, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy: for the children are birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.

37:4 It may be the od will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom
the king of Assyria his mastt to reproach the living God,
and will reprove the words which the LORhath heard:
wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left.the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.

37:6 And Isaiah said unus shall ye say unto your master,
Thus saith the LORD, Be not afraid o that thou hast heard,
wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria hemed me.

37:7 Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hearand return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword
 land.

37:8 So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warrt Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.

37:9 An say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He is come
forth to make wa. And when he heard it, he sent messengers
to Hezekiah, saying, 37:10 ye speak to Hezekiah king of
Judah, saying, Let not thy God, in whom tt, deceive thee,
saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand ofof
Assyria.

37:11 Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria ho
all lands by destroying them utterly; and shalt thou be delivered?
3he gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers
have destroyed, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of
Eden which were in Telassa Where is the king of Hamath, and
the king of Arphad, and the king of f Sepharvaim, Hena, and
Ivah?  37:14 And Hezekiah received the letter and of the
messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up unto the housD, and spread it before the LORD.

37:15 And Hezekiah prayed unto the ing, 37:16 O LORD of
hosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cthou art
the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth: tade heaven and earth.

37:17 Incline thine ear, O LORD, and hear; opens, O LORD,
and see: and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which hath eproach the living God.

37:18 Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria l the
nations, and their countries, 37:19 And have cast their gods intre: for they were no gods, but the work of men’s hands, wood and
stoore they have destroyed them.

37:20 Now therefore, O LORD our God, sahis hand, that all
the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art then thou
only.

37:21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent unto Hezekiah, s
saith the LORD God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me against
b king of Assyria: 37:22 This is the word which the LORD
hath spoken cim; The virgin, the daughter of Zion, hath
despised thee, and laughed rn; the daughter of Jerusalem
hath shaken her head at thee.

37:23 Whou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hast
thou exalted thy vofted up thine eyes on high? even against
the Holy One of Israel.

37:2vants hast thou reproached the Lord, and hast said, By
the multitude oots am I come up to the height of the
mountains, to the sides of Lebanwill cut down the tall
cedars thereof, and the choice fir trees thereoill enter
into the height of his border, and the forest of his Carmel.have digged, and drunk water; and with the sole of my feet
have I driehe rivers of the besieged places.

37:26 Hast thou not heard long ago,e done it; and of ancient
times, that I have formed it? now have I bro pass, that thou
shouldest be to lay waste defenced cities into ruinou37:27 Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were
dismanfounded: they were as the grass of the field, and as
the green herb, ss on the housetops, and as corn blasted
before it be grown up.

37:28w thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and
thy rage agains9 Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is come up into
mine eaore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in
thy lips, and I whee back by the way by which thou camest.

37:30 And this shall be a shee, Ye shall eat this year such
as groweth of itself; and the second hich springeth of the
same: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, aneyards, and
eat the fruit thereof.

37:31 And the remnant that is esca house of Judah shall
again take root downward, and bear fruit upward: out of
Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape out oon: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

37:33 Therefore thus LORD concerning the king of Assyria, He
shall not come into this cityt an arrow there, nor come
before it with shields, nor cast a bank aga37:34 By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall
nto this city, saith the LORD.

37:35 For I will defend this city to smine own sake, and
for my servant David’s sake.

37:36 Then the angeRD went forth, and smote in the camp of
the Assyrians a hundred and fod five thousand: and when they
arose early in the morning, behold, thedead corpses.

37:37 So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and wentned,
and dwelt at Nineveh.

37:38 And it came to pass, as he was worshhe house of
Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smith
the sword; and they escaped into the land of Armenia: and Esarhadd reigned in his stead.

38:1 In those days was Hezekiah sick unto deatah the
prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus D, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.

38:2 Tah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto
the LORD, 38:3 Andmember now, O LORD, I beseech thee, how I
have walked before thee in tith a perfect heart, and have
done that which is good in thy sight. Anwept sore.

38:4 Then came the word of the LORD to Isaiah, saying, 38:
say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God of David thy father, I
 thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto
thy days frs.

38:6 And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of thessyria: and I will defend this city.

38:7 And this shall be a sign unm the LORD, that the LORD
will do this thing that he hath spoken; 38:8I will bring
again the shadow of the degrees, which is gone down in th of
Ahaz, ten degrees backward. So the sun returned ten degrees, by wh it was gone down.

38:9 The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when hk, and
was recovered of his sickness: 38:10 I said in the cutting off  I shall go to the gates of the grave: I am deprived of the
residue of

38:11 I said, I shall not see the LORD, even the LORD, in the land ong: I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the
world.

38:is departed, and is removed from me as a shepherd’s
tent: I have cut a weaver my life: he will cut me off with
pining sickness: from day eht wilt thou make an end of me.

38:13 I reckoned till morning, that,  so will he break all
my bones: from day even to night wilt thou make me.

38:14 Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter: I did mourn asine eyes fail with looking upward: O LORD, I am oppressed;
undertake f8:15 What shall I say? he hath both spoken unto me, and himself hath
dhall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.

38:16 O LORe things men live, and in all these things is the
life of my spirit: su recover me, and make me to live.

38:17 Behold, for peace I had greas: but thou hast in love
to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruthou hast cast
all my sins behind thy back.

38:18 For the grave cannohee, death can not celebrate thee:
they that go down into the pit cann thy truth.

38:19 The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I y:
the father to the children shall make known thy truth.

38:20 The Leady to save me: therefore we will sing my songs
to the stringed instrthe days of our life in the house of
the LORD.

38:21 For Isaiah had sem take a lump of figs, and lay it
for a plaister upon the boil, and hcover.

38:22 Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go house of the LORD?  39:1 At that time Merodachbaladan, the son of
Bal of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah: for
he had heard  been sick, and was recovered.

39:2 And Hezekiah was glad of them, anhem the house of his
precious things, the silver, and the gold, and thand the
precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all thnd in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his
dot Hezekiah shewed them not.

39:3 Then came Isaiah the prophet unto ki, and said unto
him, What said these men? and from whence came they unnd
Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from
39:4 Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah
anl that is in mine house have they seen: there is nothing
among my trea I have not shewed them.

39:5 Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the the LORD of hosts:
39:6 Behold, the days come, that all that is in thiand that
which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shalld to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.

39:7 And of thy all issue from thee, which thou shalt
beget, shall they take away; andl be eunuchs in the palace
of the king of Babylon.

39:8 Then said Hezaiah, Good is the word of the LORD which
thou hast spoken. He said morthere shall be peace and truth
in my days.

40:1 Comfort ye, comfort y, saith your God.

40:2 Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry untt her
warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she ved of the LORD’s hand double for all her sins.

40:3 The voice of hieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the
way of the LORD, make straight ert a highway for our God.

40:4 Every valley shall be exalted, and evin and hill shall
be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight,rough
places plain: 40:5 And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, esh shall see it together: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken
it.

oice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is
grass, andoodliness thereof is as the flower of the field:
40:7 The grass witherower fadeth: because the spirit of the
LORD bloweth upon it: surely ths grass.

40:8 The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word ofhall stand for ever.

40:9 O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee high
mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy  strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of
Judah, Ber God!  40:10 Behold, the Lord GOD will come with
strong hand, and hisrule for him: behold, his reward is
with him, and his work before him.ed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the
lambs with his arm, y them in his bosom, and shall gently lead
those that are with young.
 hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and
meted out heahe span, and comprehended the dust of the earth
in a measure, and weiguntains in scales, and the hills in a
balance?  40:13 Who hath directet of the LORD, or being his
counsellor hath taught him?  40:14 With wh counsel, and who
instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgmeaught him
knowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding?  40:1the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small
dualance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little
thing.

40:16 n is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof
sufficient for a bing.

40:17 All nations before him are as nothing; and they are countess than nothing, and vanity.

40:18 To whom then will ye liken God? orness will ye compare
unto him?  40:19 The workman melteth a graven imagoldsmith
spreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains.

40:t is so impoverished that he hath no oblation chooseth a
tree that wil he seeketh unto him a cunning workman to
prepare a graven image, that be moved.

40:21 Have ye not known? have ye not heard? hath it not beu
from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of t 40:22 It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and
the inhereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the
heavens as a curtaieadeth them out as a tent to dwell in:
40:23 That bringeth the princesg; he maketh the judges of
the earth as vanity.

40:24 Yea, they shallanted; yea, they shall not be sown:
yea, their stock shall not take roarth: and he shall also
blow upon them, and they shall wither, and theshall take
them away as stubble.

40:25 To whom then will ye liken me,I be equal? saith the
Holy One.

40:26 Lift up your eyes on high, and o hath created these
things, that bringeth out their host by number: hthem all by
names by the greatness of his might, for that he is strong
not one faileth.

40:27 Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Isr is hid
from the LORD, and my judgment is passed over from my God?  40ou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the
LORD, of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is
weary? there is no of his understanding.

40:29 He giveth power to the faint; and to the no might he
increaseth strength.

40:30 Even the youths shall faint ay, and the young men
shall utterly fall: 40:31 But they that wait uponshall renew
their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; 
run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

41:1 Keepore me, O islands; and let the people renew their
strength: let them cr; then let them speak: let us come near
together to judgment.

41:2 Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to his
foot, gave the nations before him, and made him rule over kings? he
gave them as the dust to his sword, and as driven stubble to his bow.

41:3 He pursued them, and passed safely; even by the way that he had
not gone with his feet.

41:4 Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations from the
beginning? I the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.

41:5 The isles saw it, and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid,
drew near, and came.

41:6 They helped every one his neighbour; and every one said to his
brother, Be of good courage.

41:7 So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, and he that smootheth
with the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It is ready for the
sodering: and he fastened it with nails, that it should not be moved.

41:8 But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the
seed of Abraham my friend.

41:9 Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called
thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou my
servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away.

41:10 Fear tor I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy
God: I will strengthe; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold
thee with the right hand oss.

41:11 Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be
anfounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive
with thee sha

41:12 Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that
 with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing,
and as a tught.

41:13 For I the LORD thy God will hold thy right hand, saying uFear not; I will help thee.

41:14 Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye ml; I will help
thee, saith the LORD, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of
41:15 Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument havinu shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shalt
make the haff.

41:16 Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, rlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, and
shan the Holy One of Israel.

41:17 When the poor and needy seek water, as none, and their
tongue faileth for thirst, I the LORD will hear them of
Israel will not forsake them.

41:18 I will open rivers in high plfountains in the midst of
the valleys: I will make the wilderness a por, and the dry
land springs of water.

41:19 I will plant in the wildeedar, the shittah tree, and
the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set irt the fir tree,
and the pine, and the box tree together: 41:20 That t, and
know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of th done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.

41:21 Producese, saith the LORD; bring forth your strong
reasons, saith the King of:22 Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let
themhe former things, what they be, that we may consider them,
and know th of them; or declare us things for to come.

41:23 Shew the things thaome hereafter, that we may know
that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do  we may be dismayed,
and behold it together.

41:24 Behold, ye are of nd your work of nought: an
abomination is he that chooseth you.

41:25sed up one from the north, and he shall come: from the
rising of the se call upon my name: and he shall come upon
princes as upon morter, antter treadeth clay.

41:26 Who hath declared from the beginning, that ? and
beforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is noneeth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that
hearetds.

41:27 The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I wilerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.

41:28 For I beheld, and theran; even among them, and there
was no counsellor, that, when I asked old answer a word.

41:29 Behold, they are all vanity; their works are eir
molten images are wind and confusion.

42:1 Behold my servant, who; mine elect, in whom my soul
delighteth; I have put my spirit upon hi bring forth
judgment to the Gentiles.

42:2 He shall not cry, nor lifcause his voice to be heard in
the street.

42:3 A bruised reed shall ak, and the smoking flax shall he
not quench: he shall bring forth judtruth.

42:4 He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set jue earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.

42:5 Thus saith God th that created the heavens, and
stretched them out; he that spread fort, and that which
cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the peop, and
spirit to them that walk therein: 42:6 I the LORD have called theousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give
thee nant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles; 42:7
To open the blin bring out the prisoners from the prison,
and them that sit in darkneshe prison house.

42:8 I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory wive to
another, neither my praise to graven images.

42:9 Behold, the fs are come to pass, and new things do I
declare: before they spring foou of them.

42:10 Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise from the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the
ishe inhabitants thereof.

42:11 Let the wilderness and the cities there their voice,
the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitantock
sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains.

42:12 Let thery unto the LORD, and declare his praise in the
islands.

42:13 The LOgo forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up
jealousy like a man of war:ry, yea, roar; he shall prevail
against his enemies.

42:14 I have londen my peace; I have been still, and
refrained myself: now will I cry ailing woman; I will
destroy and devour at once.

42:15 I will make wains and hills, and dry up all their
herbs; and I will make the rivers nd I will dry up the
pools.

42:16 And I will bring the blind by a wayknew not; I will
lead them in paths that they have not known: I will mss
light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will Ihem, and not forsake them.

42:17 They shall be turned back, they shally ashamed, that
trust in graven images, that say to the molten imagesur
gods.

42:18 Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see.

4 blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I
sent?  who is he that is perfect, and blind as the LORD’s
servant?  42:20 Seeing m, but thou observest not; opening
the ears, but he heareth not.

42:21D is well pleased for his righteousness’ sake; he will
magnify the lke it honourable.

42:22 But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they them
snared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are forand none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.

42:23 Who among you will give ear to this? who will hearken and hear
for the timome?  42:24 Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to
the robbers? didRD, he against whom we have sinned? for
they would not walk in his wayr were they obedient unto his
law.

42:25 Therefore he hath poured upoury of his anger, and the
strength of battle: and it hath set him on fabout, yet he
knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, and he
that formeIsrael, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have
called thee by thy  art mine.

43:2 When thou passest through the waters, I will be with through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest
thire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame
kindle upon ther I am the LORD thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I
gave Ehy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.

43:4 Since thou wast precious , thou hast been honourable,
and I have loved thee: therefore will I gr thee, and people
for thy life.

43:5 Fear not: for I am with thee: I thy seed from the
east, and gather thee from the west; 43:6 I will sanorth,
Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from fadaughters from the ends of the earth; 43:7 Even every one that is
callame: for I have created him for my glory, I have formed
him; yea, I ham.

43:8 Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf thas.

43:9 Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people : who among them can declare this, and shew us former things?
let themth their witnesses, that they may be justified: or
let them hear, and truth.

43:10 Ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, and my servant whomosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he:
bere was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.

43:11 I, even LORD; and beside me there is no saviour.

43:12 I have declared, and hand I have shewed, when there
was no strange god among you: therefore itnesses, saith the
LORD, that I am God.

43:13 Yea, before the day waand there is none that can
deliver out of my hand: I will work, and wh it?  43:14 Thus
saith the LORD, your redeemer, the Holy One of Israelake I
have sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their nobles, aneans, whose cry is in the ships.

43:15 I am the LORD, your Holy One, r of Israel, your King.

43:16 Thus saith the LORD, which maketh a waye sea, and a path
in the mighty waters; 43:17 Which bringeth forth thend
horse, the army and the power; they shall lie down together, they
sise: they are extinct, they are quenched as tow.

43:18 Remember ye nomer things, neither consider the things
of old.

43:19 Behold, I will hing; now it shall spring forth; shall
ye not know it? I will even makthe wilderness, and rivers
in the desert.

43:20 The beast of the fielnour me, the dragons and the
owls: because I give waters in the wilderrs in the
desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen.

43:21 This pe I formed for myself; they shall shew forth my
praise.

43:22 But tho called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been
weary of me, O Israel.

4ast not brought me the small cattle of thy burnt
offerings; neither hanoured me with thy sacrifices. I have
not caused thee to serve with an nor wearied thee with
incense.

43:24 Thou hast bought me no sweet caey, neither hast thou
filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices: but thmade me to
serve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniqui25 I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine
own will not remember thy sins.

43:26 Put me in remembrance: let us plead declare thou, that
thou mayest be justified.

43:27 Thy first father , and thy teachers have transgressed
against me.

43:28 Therefore I ha the princes of the sanctuary, and have
given Jacob to the curse, and  reproaches.

44:1 Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom en:
44:2 Thus saith the LORD that made thee, and formed thee from the
 will help thee; Fear not, O Jacob, my servant; and thou,
Jesurun, whoosen.

44:3 For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floodsdry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing
upon ring: 44:4 And they shall spring up as among the
grass, as willows by ourses.

44:5 One shall say, I am the LORD’s; and another shall call
the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto thesurname himself by the name of Israel.

44:6 Thus saith the LORD the Kel, and his redeemer the LORD
of hosts; I am the first, and I am the lside me there is no
God.

44:7 And who, as I, shall call, and shall dend set it in
order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and tthat are coming, and shall come, let them shew unto them.

44:8 Fear yither be afraid: have not I told thee from that
time, and have declarere even my witnesses. Is there a God
beside me? yea, there is no God; any.

44:9 They that make a graven image are all of them vanity; and tctable things shall not profit; and they are their own witnesses;
theynor know; that they may be ashamed.

44:10 Who hath formed a god, or maven image that is
profitable for nothing?  44:11 Behold, all his fellbe
ashamed: and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered let them stand up; yet they shall fear, and they shall be
ashamed tog4:12 The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, and
fashionetammers, and worketh it with the strength of his
arms: yea, he is hungr strength faileth: he drinketh no
water, and is faint.

44:13 The carpcheth out his rule; he marketh it out with a
line; he fitteth it with  he marketh it out with the
compass, and maketh it after the figure ofording to the
beauty of a man; that it may remain in the house.

44:14 him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak,
which he strengthimself among the trees of the forest: he
planteth an ash, and the raiurish it.

44:15 Then shall it be for a man to burn: for he will take d warm himself; yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread; yea, he
maketh  worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, and
falleth down thereto burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth
flesh; th roast, and is satisfied: yea, he warmeth himself,
and saith, Aha, II have seen the fire: 44:17 And the residue
thereof he maketh a god, eaven image: he falleth down unto
it, and worshippeth it, and prayeth u saith, Deliver me;
for thou art my god.

44:18 They have not known nood: for he hath shut their eyes,
that they cannot see; and their heartey cannot understand.

44:19 And none considereth in his heart, neitheknowledge
nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fiso I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh,
an and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination?
shall I fall dowtock of a tree?  44:20 He feedeth on ashes:
a deceived heart hath turnde, that he cannot deliver his
soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my?  44:21 Remember
these, O Jacob and Israel; for thou art my servant: rmed
thee; thou art my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten 44:22 I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and,
ahy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee.

44:23 Sing, O ye hor the LORD hath done it: shout, ye lower
parts of the earth: break fonging, ye mountains, O forest,
and every tree therein: for the LORD had Jacob, and
glorified himself in Israel.

44:24 Thus saith the LORD, mer, and he that formed thee from
the womb, I am the LORD that maketh ; that stretcheth forth
the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the eself; 44:25
That frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh divinhat turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish;
44:onfirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the
counsel of his m that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be
inhabited; and to the cities o shall be built, and I will
raise up the decayed places thereof: 44:27 to the deep, Be
dry, and I will dry up thy rivers: 44:28 That saith o is my
shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jeru shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.

45th the LORD to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I
have holden,nations before him; and I will loose the loins
of kings, to open befortwo leaved gates; and the gates shall
not be shut; 45:2 I will go befond make the crooked places
straight: I will break in pieces the gates , and cut in sunder
the bars of iron: 45:3 And I will give thee the tr darkness,
and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know t
LORD, which call thee by thy name, am the God of Israel.

45:4 For Javant’s sake, and Israel mine elect, I have even
called thee by thy n surnamed thee, though thou hast not
known me.

45:5 I am the LORD, an none else, there is no God beside me:
I girded thee, though thou hastme: 45:6 That they may know
from the rising of the sun, and from the where is none
beside me. I am the LORD, and there is none else.

45:7 Ilight, and create darkness: I make peace, and create
evil: I the LORD e things.

45:8 Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pghteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation,
ateousness spring up together; I the LORD have created it.

45:9 Woe unt striveth with his Maker! Let the potsherd
strive with the potsherds h. Shall the clay say to him that
fashioneth it, What makest thou? or  hath no hands?  45:10
Woe unto him that saith unto his father, What bou? or to
the woman, What hast thou brought forth?  45:11 Thus saith te Holy One of Israel, and his Maker, Ask me of things to come
concernis, and concerning the work of my hands command ye me.

45:12 I have mah, and created man upon it: I, even my
hands, have stretched out the hd all their host have I
commanded.

45:13 I have raised him up in righand I will direct all his
ways: he shall build my city, and he shall lptives, not for
price nor reward, saith the LORD of hosts.

45:14 ThusRD, The labour of Egypt, and merchandise of
Ethiopia and of the Sabean, men of stature, shall come over unto
thee, and they shall be thine: they shall come after thee; in chains
they shall come over, and they shall fall down unto thee, they shall
make supplication unto thee, saying, Surely God is in thee; and there
is none else, there is no God.

4 Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the
Savio They shall be ashamed, and also confounded, all of them: they
shall gsion together that are makers of idols.

45:17 But Israel shall be savORD with an everlasting
salvation: ye shall not be ashamed nor confounld without end.

45:18 For thus saith the LORD that created the heavenself
that formed the earth and made it; he hath established it, he cret in vain, he formed it to be inhabited: I am the LORD; and there
is n.

45:19 I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth: I
unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain: I the LORD speak
righteousclare things that are right.

45:20 Assemble yourselves and come; drawther, ye that are
escaped of the nations: they have no knowledge that wood of
their graven image, and pray unto a god that cannot save.

45: bring them near; yea, let them take counsel
together: who hath declaris from ancient time? who hath told it
from that time?  have not I thed there is no God else beside
me; a just God and a Saviour; there is n me.

45:22 Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth: d, and there is none else.

45:23 I have sworn by myself, the word is  my mouth in
righteousness, and shall not return, That unto me every kbow, every tongue shall swear.

45:24 Surely, shall one say, in the LOrighteousness and
strength: even to him shall men come; and all that ad
against him shall be ashamed.

45:25 In the LORD shall all the seed e justified, and shall
glory.

46:1 Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth, thwere upon the beasts,
and upon the cattle: your carriages were heavy ly are a
burden to the weary beast.

46:2 They stoop, they bow down togey could not deliver the
burden, but themselves are gone into captivitarken unto me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the
house of Ich are borne by me from the belly, which are
carried from the womb: 46n to your old age I am he; and even
to hoar hairs will I carry you: I  and I will bear; even I
will carry, and will deliver you.

46:5 To whliken me, and make me equal, and compare me, that
we may be like?  46:sh gold out of the bag, and weigh
silver in the balance, and hire a goand he maketh it a god:
they fall down, yea, they worship.

46:7 They on the shoulder, they carry him, and set him in
his place, and he stanhis place shall he not remove: yea,
one shall cry unto him, yet can her, nor save him out of his
trouble.

46:8 Remember this, and shew your bring it again to mind, O
ye transgressors.

46:9 Remember the former old: for I am God, and there is
none else; I am God, and there is non 46:10 Declaring the
end from the beginning, and from ancient times thhat are not
yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do alure: 46:11 Calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man that
executensel from a far country: yea, I have spoken it, I will
also bring it thave purposed it, I will also do it.

46:12 Hearken unto me, ye stouthearted, that are far from
righteousness: 46:13 I bring near my righteousness; it shall not be
far off, and my salvation shall not tarry: andlace salvation
in Zion for Israel my glory.

47:1 Come down, and sit it, O virgin daughter of Babylon, sit
on the ground: there is no throner of the Chaldeans: for
thou shalt no more be called tender and delicaTake the millstones, and grind meal: uncover thy locks, make bare
the er the thigh, pass over the rivers.

47:3 Thy nakedness shall be uncov thy shame shall be seen: I
will take vengeance, and I will not meet tn.

47:4 As for our redeemer, the LORD of hosts is his name, the Holy el.

47:5 Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of ts: for thou shalt no more be called, The lady of kingdoms.

47:6 I was my people, I have polluted mine inheritance, and
given them into thinou didst shew them no mercy; upon the
ancient hast thou very heavily le.

47:7 And thou saidst, I shall be a lady for ever: so that thou diday these things to thy heart, neither didst remember the latter
end of Therefore hear now this, thou that art given to pleasures, that
dwell carelessly, that sayest in thine heart, I am, and none else
beside mel not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss
of children: 47:9  two things shall come to thee in a moment
in one day, the loss of chi widowhood: they shall come upon
thee in their perfection for the multhy sorceries, and for
the great abundance of thine enchantments.

47:1u hast trusted in thy wickedness: thou hast said, None
seeth me. Thy wthy knowledge, it hath perverted thee; and
thou hast said in thine hea and none else beside me.

47:11 Therefore shall evil come upon thee; ot know from
whence it riseth: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thoube
able to put it off: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly,
wshalt not know.

47:12 Stand now with thine enchantments, and with theof thy
sorceries, wherein thou hast laboured from thy youth; if so be be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail.

47:13 Thou art weariultitude of thy counsels. Let now the
astrologers, the stargazers, therognosticators, stand up,
and save thee from these things that shall chee.

47:14 Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn themll not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: there shall
notto warm at, nor fire to sit before it.

47:15 Thus shall they be unto h whom thou hast laboured, even
thy merchants, from thy youth: they shwander every one to his
quarter; none shall save thee.

48:1 Hear ye tuse of Jacob, which are called by the name of
Israel, and are come forthe waters of Judah, which swear by
the name of the LORD, and make mene God of Israel, but not
in truth, nor in righteousness.

48:2 For theselves of the holy city, and stay themselves
upon the God of Israel; T hosts is his name.

48:3 I have declared the former things from the band they
went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did them sudthey came to pass.

48:4 Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and tan iron
sinew, and thy brow brass; 48:5 I have even from the beginningit to thee; before it came to pass I shewed it thee: lest
thou shouldee idol hath done them, and my graven image, and
my molten image, hath them.

48:6 Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare it?wed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou
didst them.

48:7 They are created now, and not from the beginning; even beay when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I
kne8:8 Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that
timene ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest deal
very treached wast called a transgressor from the womb.

48:9 For my name’s sakefer mine anger, and for my praise
will I refrain for thee, that I cut f.

48:10 Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chon the furnace of affliction.

48:11 For mine own sake, even for mine oill I do it: for how
should my name be polluted? and I will not give mto another.

48:12 Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I athe first, I also am the last.

48:13 Mine hand also hath laid the fouhe earth, and my
right hand hath spanned the heavens: when I call untoy stand
up together.

48:14 All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; whiem hath
declared these things? The LORD hath loved him: he will do hisn Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.

48:15 I, even I, ha yea, I have called him: I have brought
him, and he shall make his wayus.

48:16 Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in sem the beginning; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the
Lo his Spirit, hath sent me.

48:17 Thus saith the LORD, thy Redeemer, t of Israel; I am
the LORD thy God which teacheth thee to profit, whichthee by
the way that thou shouldest go.

48:18 O that thou hadst hearkcommandments! then had thy
peace been as a river, and thy righteousnesves of the sea:
48:19 Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offshy
bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut otroyed from before me.

48:20 Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from thes, with a voice
of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to thee
earth; say ye, The LORD hath redeemed his servant Jacob.

48:21 And ted not when he led them through the deserts: he
caused the waters to f the rock for them: he clave the rock
also, and the waters gushed outhere is no peace, saith the LORD, unto the wicked.

49:1 Listen, O isle; and hearken, ye people, from far; The
LORD hath called me from the he bowels of my mother hath
he made mention of my name.

49:2 And he hy mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of
his hand hath he hid me, e a polished shaft; in his quiver
hath he hid me; 49:3 And said unto mrt my servant, O Israel,
in whom I will be glorified.

49:4 Then I sailaboured in vain, I have spent my strength
for nought, and in vain: yejudgment is with the LORD, and
my work with my God.

49:5 And now, saiLORD that formed me from the womb to be his
servant, to bring Jacob ag, Though Israel be not gathered,
yet shall I be glorious in the eyes od my God shall be
my strength.

49:6 And he said, It is a light thing thou shouldest be my
servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to rpreserved
of Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentilesu mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth.

49:7 Thus saith te Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, to
him whom man despiseth, to e nation abhorreth, to a servant
of rulers, Kings shall see and arise,so shall worship,
because of the LORD that is faithful, and the Holy Oael, and
he shall choose thee.

49:8 Thus saith the LORD, In an acceptave I heard thee, and
in a day of salvation have I helped thee: and I ve thee,
and give thee for a covenant of the people, to establish the cause to inherit the desolate heritages; 49:9 That thou mayest say to
ers, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shew
yourselves. They sha the ways, and their pastures shall be
in all high places.

49:10 Theyhunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun
smite them: for he trcy on them shall lead them, even by
the springs of water shall he gui

49:11 And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall 

49:12 Behold, these shall come from far: and, lo, these from the norm the west; and these from the land of Sinim.

49:13 Sing, O heavens; ul, O earth; and break forth into
singing, O mountains: for the LORD hted his people, and will
have mercy upon his afflicted.

49:14 But Zioe LORD hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath
forgotten me.

49:15 Can a wt her sucking child, that she should not have
compassion on the son of yea, they may forget, yet will I
not forget thee.

49:16 Behold, I hahee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls
are continually before me.

children shall make haste; thy destroyers and they that made
thee wast forth of thee.

49:18 Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: allher
themselves together, and come to thee. As I live, saith the LORD, surely clothe thee with them all, as with an ornament, and bind
them os a bride doeth.

49:19 For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the thy
destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the
inhabithey that swallowed thee up shall be far away.

49:20 The children whilt have, after thou hast lost the
other, shall say again in thine earsace is too strait for me:
give place to me that I may dwell.

49:21 Thou say in thine heart, Who hath begotten me these,
seeing I have lost n, and am desolate, a captive, and
removing to and fro? and who hath bthese? Behold, I was left
alone; these, where had they been?  49:22 The Lord GOD,
Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set dard to the people: and they shall bring thy sons in their arms,
and trs shall be carried upon their shoulders.

49:23 And kings shall be thfathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers: they shall bow down to heir face toward
the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thouw that
I am the LORD: for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.
ll the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive
delivered? thus saith the LORD, Even the captives of the
mighty shall be taken ahe prey of the terrible shall be
delivered: for I will contend with hitendeth with thee, and
I will save thy children.

49:26 And I will feet oppress thee with their own flesh; and
they shall be drunken with thod, as with sweet wine: and
all flesh shall know that I the LORD am thand thy Redeemer,
the mighty One of Jacob.

50:1 Thus saith the LORD, he bill of your mother’s
divorcement, whom I have put away? or whichcreditors is it to
whom I have sold you?  Behold, for your iniquities ld
yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away.

5ore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was
there none to a my hand shortened at all, that it cannot
redeem? or have I no power t behold, at my rebuke I dry up
the sea, I make the rivers a wildernessh stinketh, because
there is no water, and dieth for thirst.

50:3 I cheavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their
covering.

50:4 Theath given me the tongue of the learned, that I
should know how to spean season to him that is weary: he
wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeear to hear as the
learned.

50:5 The Lord GOD hath opened mine ear, aot rebellious,
neither turned away back.

50:6 I gave my back to the sd my cheeks to them that plucked
off the hair: I hid not my face from spitting.

50:7 For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not bed: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that
I shallhamed.

50:8 He is near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? d together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me.

50:9 Behod GOD will help me; who is he that shall condemn
me?  lo, they all shad as a garment; the moth shall eat them
up.

50:10 Who is among you th the LORD, that obeyeth the voice
of his servant, that walketh in darkath no light? let him
trust in the name of the LORD, and stay upon his11 Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about
wi walk in the light of your fire, and in the sparks that ye
have kindlehall ye have of mine hand; ye shall lie down in
sorrow.

51:1 Hearken hat follow after righteousness, ye that seek
the LORD: look unto the r ye are hewn, and to the hole of
the pit whence ye are digged.

51:2 LAbraham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you: for
I called him allessed him, and increased him.

51:3 For the LORD shall comfort Zion: fort all her waste
places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, esert like
the garden of the LORD; joy and gladness shall be found theksgiving, and the voice of melody.

51:4 Hearken unto me, my people; aear unto me, O my nation:
for a law shall proceed from me, and I will dgment to rest
for a light of the people.

51:5 My righteousness is neation is gone forth, and mine
arms shall judge the people; the isles spon me, and on mine
arm shall they trust.

51:6 Lift up your eyes to t, and look upon the earth
beneath: for the heavens shall vanish away l, and the earth
shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therie in
like manner: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my righteoull not be abolished.

51:7 Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousnessple in whose
heart is my law; fear ye not the reproach of men, neitherraid
of their revilings.

51:8 For the moth shall eat them up like a gd the worm shall
eat them like wool: but my righteousness shall be for my
salvation from generation to generation.

51:9 Awake, awake, put o, O arm of the LORD; awake, as in
the ancient days, in the generationsrt thou not it that hath
cut Rahab, and wounded the dragon?  51:10 Artt which hath
dried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath maths
of the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over?  51:11 Therefore ted of the LORD shall return, and come with singing unto Zion;
and everoy shall be upon their head: they shall obtain
gladness and joy; and smourning shall flee away.

51:12 I, even I, am he that comforteth you:thou, that thou
shouldest be afraid of a man that shall die, and of than
which shall be made as grass; 51:13 And forgettest the LORD thy mak stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the
earth; aeared continually every day because of the fury of
the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? and where is the fury
of the oppressor?  51:14 The captive exile hasteneth that he may be
loosed, and that he should not die in the pit, nor that his bread
should fail.

51:15 But I am the LORD thy God, that divided the sea, whose waves
roared: The LORs is his name.

51:16 And I have put my words in thy mouth, and I havehee in
the shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay tions of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou art my people.

51:17 Awaktand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the
hand of the LORD the cupry; thou hast drunken the dregs of
the cup of trembling, and wrung the18 There is none to guide her among all the sons whom she hath
broughtither is there any that taketh her by the hand of all
the sons that shught up.

51:19 These two things are come unto thee; who shall be sorr  desolation, and destruction, and the famine, and the sword: by
whom fort thee?  51:20 Thy sons have fainted, they lie at
the head of all ta wild bull in a net: they are full of
the fury of the LORD, the rebukGod.

51:21 Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, but  wine: 51:22 Thus saith thy Lord the LORD, and thy God that
pleadeth tof his people, Behold, I have taken out of thine
hand the cup of tremb the dregs of the cup of my fury; thou
shalt no more drink it again: 5I will put it into the hand of
them that afflict thee; which have saidul, Bow down, that we
may go over: and thou hast laid thy body as the d as the
street, to them that went over.

52:1 Awake, awake; put on th, O Zion; put on thy beautiful
garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: frth there shall no
more come into thee the uncircumcised and the uncle Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down, O Jerusalem:
loose m the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.

52:3 For thus saRD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and
ye shall be redeemed witho
52:4 For thus saith the Lord GOD, My people went down aforetime into
sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.

52:5 Noore, what have I here, saith the LORD, that my people
is taken away fothey that rule over them make them to howl,
saith the LORD; and my namlly every day is blasphemed.

52:6 Therefore my people shall know my nefore they shall know
in that day that I am he that doth speak: behold

52:7 How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that
bringd tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good
tidings of good, sheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy
God reigneth!  52:8 Thy watl lift up the voice; with the
voice together shall they sing: for they eye to eye, when
the LORD shall bring again Zion.

52:9 Break forth iing together, ye waste places of
Jerusalem: for the LORD hath comfortele, he hath redeemed
Jerusalem.

52:10 The LORD hath made bare his holthe eyes of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see ton of our
God.

52:11 Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touean
thing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the
vthe LORD.

52:12 For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight:LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rereward.
old, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and
extolledvery high.

52:14 As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marhan any man, and his form more than the sons of men: 52:15 So shall
he many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him:
for that whicbeen told them shall they see; and that which
they had not heard shallsider.

53:1 Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of trevealed?  53:2 For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and
when we shal there is no beauty that we should desire him.

53:3 He is despised an of men; a man of sorrows, and
acquainted with grief: and we hid as it faces from him; he
was despised, and we esteemed him not.

53:4 Surelborne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we
did esteem him stricten of God, and afflicted.

53:5 But he was wounded for our transgressas bruised for our
iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon th his
stripes we are healed.

53:6 All we like sheep have gone astrayturned every one to
his own way; and the LORD hath laid on him the inius all.

53:7 He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened no: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before
her s dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.

53:8 He was taken from prison anment: and who shall declare
his generation? for he was cut off out of f the living: for
the transgression of my people was he stricken.

53:made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his
death; becausne no violence, neither was any deceit in his
mouth.

53:10 Yet it plee LORD to bruise him; he hath put him to grief:
when thou shalt make h offering for sin, he shall see his
seed, he shall prolong his days, aeasure of the LORD shall
prosper in his hand.

53:11 He shall see of tl of his soul, and shall be satisfied:
by his knowledge shall my rightnt justify many; for he shall
bear their iniquities.

53:12 Therefore  him a portion with the great, and he
shall divide the spoil with the because he hath poured out his
soul unto death: and he was numbered wiansgressors; and he
bare the sin of many, and made intercession for thsors.

54:1 Sing, O barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth intond cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: for
more are theof the desolate than the children of the married
wife, saith the LORD.arge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the
curtains ofbitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and
strengthen thy stakes; 5u shalt break forth on the right
hand and on the left; and thy seed sht the Gentiles, and
make the desolate cities to be inhabited.

54:4 Fe thou shalt not be ashamed: neither be thou
confounded; for thou shaltt to shame: for thou shalt forget
the shame of thy youth, and shalt nor the reproach of thy
widowhood any more.

54:5 For thy Maker is thinehe LORD of hosts is his name;
and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel;f the whole earth
shall he be called.

54:6 For the LORD hath called tman forsaken and grieved in
spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou was saith thy God.

54:7 For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but witcies
will I gather thee.

54:8 In a little wrath I hid my face from thmoment; but with
everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saithhy
Redeemer.

54:9 For this is as the waters of Noah unto me: for as I
that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth; so have I
sI would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee.

54:10 For the mountaepart, and the hills be removed; but my
kindness shall not depart fromther shall the covenant of my
peace be removed, saith the LORD that han thee.

54:11 O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforteI will lay thy stones with fair colours, and lay thy
foundations with .

54:12 And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of
carbu all thy borders of pleasant stones.

54:13 And all thy children shall of the LORD; and great
shall be the peace of thy children.

54:14 In ness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be far
from oppression; fort not fear: and from terror; for it
shall not come near thee.

54:15 By shall surely gather together, but not by me:
whosoever shall gather ainst thee shall fall for thy sake.

54:16 Behold, I have created the  bloweth the coals in the
fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument rk; and I have
created the waster to destroy.

54:17 No weapon that isainst thee shall prosper; and every
tongue that shall rise against thent thou shalt condemn.
This is the heritage of the servants of the LORr
righteousness is of me, saith the LORD.

55:1 Ho, every one that thie ye to the waters, and he that
hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; , buy wine and milk
without money and without price.

55:2 Wherefore d money for that which is not bread? and your
labour for that which satt? hearken diligently unto me, and
eat ye that which is good, and let delight itself in
fatness.

55:3 Incline your ear, and come unto me: hour soul shall
live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you,sure
mercies of David.

55:4 Behold, I have given him for a witness toe, a leader
and commander to the people.

55:5 Behold, thou shalt calln that thou knowest not, and
nations that knew not thee shall run untouse of the LORD thy
God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he hath ghee.

55:6 Seek ye the LORD while he may be found, call ye upon him whear: 55:7 Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man
his and let him return unto the LORD, and he will have mercy
upon him; and, for he will abundantly pardon.

55:8 For my thoughts are not your thither are your ways my
ways, saith the LORD.

55:9 For as the heavens than the earth, so are my ways
higher than your ways, and my thoughts houghts.

55:10 For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven,neth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it bring
forth ant it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the
eater: 55:11 So shale that goeth forth out of my mouth: it
shall not return unto me void,  accomplish that which I
please, and it shall prosper in the thing whent it.

55:12 For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peacuntains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and
aes of the field shall clap their hands.

55:13 Instead of the thorn shup the fir tree, and instead of
the brier shall come up the myrtle tret shall be to the LORD
for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall t off.

56:1 Thus saith the LORD, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: foation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed.

56:2 Bles man that doeth this, and the son of man that
layeth hold on it; that e sabbath from polluting it, and
keepeth his hand from doing any evil.ther let the son of the stranger, that hath joined himself to
the LORDsaying, The LORD hath utterly separated me from his
people: neither leh say, Behold, I am a dry tree.

56:4 For thus saith the LORD unto theat keep my sabbaths,
and choose the things that please me, and take hoovenant;
56:5 Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my wace and a name better than of sons and of daughters: I will give
them ting name, that shall not be cut off.

56:6 Also the sons of the stran join themselves to the LORD,
to serve him, and to love the name of th be his servants,
every one that keepeth the sabbath from polluting itth hold
of my covenant; 56:7 Even them will I bring to my holy mountaie them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings and
their sshall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine house
shall be called an hrayer for all people.

56:8 The Lord GOD, which gathereth the outcastsel saith, Yet
will I gather others to him, beside those that are gatheim.

56:9 All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasforest.

56:10 His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they aredogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.

56:1ey are greedy dogs which can never have enough, and they
are shepherdsnot understand: they all look to their own way,
every one for his gain quarter.

56:12 Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and we will fils
with strong drink; and to morrow shall be as this day, and much more

57:1 The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart: and
mer are taken away, none considering that the righteous is
taken away fro to come.

57:2 He shall enter into peace: they shall rest in their bee walking in his uprightness.

57:3 But draw near hither, ye sons of ts, the seed of the
adulterer and the whore.

57:4 Against whom do ye slves? against whom make ye a wide
mouth, and draw out the tongue? are ldren of transgression,
a seed of falsehood.

57:5 Enflaming yourselvels under every green tree, slaying
the children in the valleys under tf the rocks?  57:6 Among
the smooth stones of the stream is thy portioy, they are thy
lot: even to them hast thou poured a drink offering, tfered
a meat offering. Should I receive comfort in these?  57:7 Upon a high mountain hast thou set thy bed: even thither wentest thou up
to fice.

57:8 Behind the doors also and the posts hast thou set up thy
r: for thou hast discovered thyself to another than me, and
art gone upt enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant with
them; thou lovedst tere thou sawest it.

57:9 And thou wentest to the king with ointment, increase
thy perfumes, and didst send thy messengers far off, and didshyself even unto hell.

57:10 Thou art wearied in the greatness of thy saidst thou
not, There is no hope: thou hast found the life of thine efore thou wast not grieved.

57:11 And of whom hast thou been afraid  that thou hast
lied, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy hve not I
held my peace even of old, and thou fearest me not?  57:12 I re thy righteousness, and thy works; for they shall not profit
thee.

 thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee; but the wind
shall carryway; vanity shall take them: but he that putteth
his trust in me shallhe land, and shall inherit my holy
mountain; 57:14 And shall say, Castcast ye up, prepare the
way, take up the stumblingblock out of the wayle.

57:15 For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternme is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also
that is trite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the
humble, and to reart of the contrite ones.

57:16 For I will not contend for ever, neit be always wroth:
for the spirit should fail before me, and the souls e made.

57:17 For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and s hid me, and was wroth, and he went on frowardly in the way of his
hea I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also,
and reforts unto him and to his mourners.

57:19 I create the fruit of the l, peace to him that is far
off, and to him that is near, saith the LORill heal him.

57:20 But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when itt,
whose waters cast up mire and dirt.

57:21 There is no peace, saithto the wicked.

58:1 Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a tr shew
my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sinst they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nation
that diusness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God:
they ask of me theances of justice; they take delight in
approaching to God.

58:3 Where we fasted, say they, and thou seest not? wherefore
have we afflicted and thou takest no knowledge? Behold, in
the day of your fast ye find and exact all your labours.

58:4 Behold, ye fast for strife and debatsmite with the fist
of wickedness: ye shall not fast as ye do this dayyour voice
to be heard on high.

58:5 Is it such a fast that I have ch for a man to afflict
his soul? is it to bow down his head as a bulrusspread
sackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and ble day to the LORD?  58:6 Is not this the fast that I have
chosen? to bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens,
and to let the oppres, and that ye break every yoke?  58:7
Is it not to deal thy bread to t and that thou bring the
poor that are cast out to thy house? when tho naked, that
thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine
58:8 Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine healting forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before
thee; the glLORD shall be thy rereward.

58:9 Then shalt thou call, and the LORD s; thou shalt cry,
and he shall say, Here I am. If thou take away from of thee
the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanityAnd if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted
soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as
oon day: 58:11 And the LORD shall guide thee continually, and
satisfy in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be
like a watered g like a spring of water, whose waters fail
not.

58:12 And they that s thee shall build the old waste places:
thou shalt raise up the foundany generations; and thou
shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, er of paths to
dwell in.

58:13 If thou turn away thy foot from the sam doing thy
pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, te LORD, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways,
nothine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: 58:14
Then shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; and I will cause thee to
ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the
heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken
it.

59:1 Behold, the LORD’s hand is not shortened, that it cannot save;
neither his ear hey, that it cannot hear: 59:2 But your iniquities
have separated betwee your God, and your sins have hid his
face from you, that he will not :3 For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with
iniquips have spoken lies, your tongue hath muttered
perverseness.

59:4 Nonfor justice, nor any pleadeth for truth: they trust
in vanity, and spehey conceive mischief, and bring forth
iniquity.

59:5 They hatch cockggs, and weave the spider’s web: he that
eateth of their eggs dieth,ich is crushed breaketh out
into a viper.

59:6 Their webs shall not bnts, neither shall they cover
themselves with their works: their works of iniquity, and
the act of violence is in their hands.

59:7 Their f evil, and they make haste to shed innocent
blood: their thoughts are of iniquity; wasting and
destruction are in their paths.

59:8 The wayey know not; and there is no judgment in their
goings: they have made ed paths: whosoever goeth therein
shall not know peace.

59:9 Thereforent far from us, neither doth justice overtake
us: we wait for light, obscurity; for brightness, but we
walk in darkness.

59:10 We grope folike the blind, and we grope as if we had
no eyes: we stumble at noon e night; we are in desolate
places as dead men.

59:11 We roar all liknd mourn sore like doves: we look for
judgment, but there is none; for, but it is far off from us.

59:12 For our transgressions are multipl thee, and our sins
testify against us: for our transgressions are witas for our
iniquities, we know them; 59:13 In transgressing and lying e
LORD, and departing away from our God, speaking oppression and revolng and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.

59:14 And judgmentaway backward, and justice standeth afar
off: for truth is fallen in tand equity cannot enter.

59:15 Yea, truth faileth; and he that departvil maketh
himself a prey: and the LORD saw it, and it displeased him was no judgment.

59:16 And he saw that there was no man, and wondered was no
intercessor: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; andousness, it sustained him.

59:17 For he put on righteousness as a breand an helmet of
salvation upon his head; and he put on the garments o for
clothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak.

59:18 According to ds, accordingly he will repay, fury to his
adversaries, recompence to ; to the islands he will repay
recompence.

59:19 So shall they fear t the LORD from the west, and his
glory from the rising of the sun. Whe shall come in like a
flood, the Spirit of the LORD shall lift up a stainst him.

59:20 And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them tom transgression in Jacob, saith the LORD.

59:21 As for me, this is m with them, saith the LORD; My
spirit that is upon thee, and my words e put in thy mouth,
shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the y seed,
nor out of the mouth of thy seed’s seed, saith the LORD, froh and for ever.

60:1 Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the gloRD is
risen upon thee.

60:2 For, behold, the darkness shall cover the gross
darkness the people: but the LORD shall arise upon thee, and hiall be seen upon thee.

60:3 And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, to the
brightness of thy rising.

60:4 Lift up thine eyes round aboutall they gather
themselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shallfar,
and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.

60:5 Then thou sh, and flow together, and thine heart shall
fear, and be enlarged; becaundance of the sea shall be
converted unto thee, the forces of the Genl come unto thee.

60:6 The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the s of
Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come: they shall brind incense; and they shall shew forth the praises of the LORD.

60:7 Alcks of Kedar shall be gathered together unto thee, the
rams of Nebaiotister unto thee: they shall come up with
acceptance on mine altar, andrify the house of my glory.

60:8 Who are these that fly as a cloud, aoves to their
windows?  60:9 Surely the isles shall wait for me, and tf
Tarshish first, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and their
gem, unto the name of the LORD thy God, and to the Holy One
of Israel, hath glorified thee.

60:10 And the sons of strangers shall build up tand their
kings shall minister unto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee favour have I had mercy on thee.

60:11 Therefore thy gates shall be ually; they shall not be
shut day nor night; that men may bring unto tces of the
Gentiles, and that their kings may be brought.

60:12 For tnd kingdom that will not serve thee shall
perish; yea, those nations serly wasted.

60:13 The glory of Lebanon shall come unto thee, the firpine tree, and the box together, to beautify the place of my
sanctuaryl make the place of my feet glorious.

60:14 The sons also of them tha thee shall come bending
unto thee; and all they that despised thee shselves down
at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee; The cihe
LORD, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.

60:15 Whereas thou has ben and hated, so that no man went
through thee, I will make thee an etellency, a joy of many
generations.

60:16 Thou shalt also suck the miGentiles, and shalt suck
the breast of kings: and thou shalt know that am thy
Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.

60:17 For ll bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver,
and for wood brass, anes iron: I will also make thy officers
peace, and thine exactors righ
60:18 Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, wasting nor
destruin thy borders; but thou shalt call thy walls
Salvation, and thy gates0:19 The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for
brightnessmoon give light unto thee: but the LORD shall be
unto thee an everlast and thy God thy glory.

60:20 Thy sun shall no more go down; neither moon withdraw
itself: for the LORD shall be thine everlasting light, as of
thy mourning shall be ended.

60:21 Thy people also shall be all they shall inherit the
land for ever, the branch of my planting, the whands, that I
may be glorified.

60:22 A little one shall become a thoa small one a strong
nation: I the LORD will hasten it in his time.

6irit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath
anointed me to od tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to
bind up the brokenheartedaim liberty to the captives, and
the opening of the prison to them thad; 61:2 To proclaim the
acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of ve our God; to
comfort all that mourn; 61:3 To appoint unto them that mo,
to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, thef praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be
called trees usness, the planting of the LORD, that he might
be glorified.

61:4 Anl build the old wastes, they shall raise up the
former desolations, anl repair the waste cities, the
desolations of many generations.

61:5 rs shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of
the alien shall bmen and your vinedressers.

61:6 But ye shall be named the Priests of : men shall call you
the Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the richestiles, and
in their glory shall ye boast yourselves.

61:7 For your shl have double; and for confusion they shall
rejoice in their portion: in their land they shall possess
the double: everlasting joy shall be 
61:8 For I the LORD love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering; direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting
covenant w

61:9 And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their
offng the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them,
that they arewhich the LORD hath blessed.

61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the LORDhall be joyful in
my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of he hath
covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decf with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her
jewels.

61the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden
causeth the thingssown in it to spring forth; so the Lord
GOD will cause righteousness ao spring forth before all the
nations.

62:1 For Zion’s sake will I y peace, and for Jerusalem’s
sake I will not rest, until the righteoeof go forth as
brightness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp that b:2 And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy
gloou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the
LORD shall nahou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the LORD, and
a royan the hand of thy God.

62:4 Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; nel thy land any
more be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzhy
land Beulah: for the LORD delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be

62:5 For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry
ts the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God
rejoice ov
62:6 I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shall
neveir peace day nor night: ye that make mention of the
LORD, keep not si And give him no rest, till he establish,
and till he make Jerusalem a the earth.

62:8 The LORD hath sworn by his right hand, and by the artrength, Surely I will no more give thy corn to be meat for thine
enemhe sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine, for
the which thou hed: 62:9 But they that have gathered it
shall eat it, and praise the Lhey that have brought it
together shall drink it in the courts of my h62:10 Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of the
peopp, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up a
standard for 

62:11 Behold, the LORD hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Sa daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his
reward isand his work before him.

62:12 And they shall call them, The holy peoedeemed of the
LORD: and thou shalt be called, Sought out, A city not 63:1 Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from
Bozrahhat is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the
greatness of his strhat speak in righteousness, mighty to
save.

63:2 Wherefore art thou re apparel, and thy garments like
him that treadeth in the winefat?  63trodden the winepress
alone; and of the people there was none with me: tread them
in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their bloosprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.

63:4 Forf vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my
redeemed is come.

63ooked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that
there was none therefore mine own arm brought salvation
unto me; and my fury, it uphe:6 And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them
drunky, and I will bring down their strength to the earth.

63:7 I will menlovingkindnesses of the LORD, and the praises
of the LORD, according tthe LORD hath bestowed on us, and
the great goodness toward the house which he hath bestowed
on them according to his mercies, and accordingltitude of
his lovingkindnesses.

63:8 For he said, Surely they are myildren that will not
lie: so he was their Saviour.

63:9 In all their he was afflicted, and the angel of his
presence saved them: in his lov his pity he redeemed them; and
he bare them, and carried them all theld.

63:10 But they rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore he  to be their enemy, and he fought against them.

63:11 Then he remembeys of old, Moses, and his people,
saying, Where is he that brought the the sea with the
shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holythin
him?  63:12 That led them by the right hand of Moses with his glo dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting
name?  led them through the deep, as an horse in the
wilderness, that they stumble?  63:14 As a beast goeth down
into the valley, the Spirit of thed him to rest: so didst
thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glori63:15 Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thy
holof thy glory: where is thy zeal and thy strength, the
sounding of thy  of thy mercies toward me? are they
restrained?  63:16 Doubtless thou her, though Abraham be
ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: RD, art our
father, our redeemer; thy name is from everlasting.

63:17hy hast thou made us to err from thy ways, and hardened
our heart fromReturn for thy servants’ sake, the tribes of
thine inheritance.

63:ople of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while:
our adversatrodden down thy sanctuary.

63:19 We are thine: thou never barest rulm; they were not
called by thy name.

64:1 Oh that thou wouldest rend , that thou wouldest come
down, that the mountains might flow down at ce, 64:2 As when
the melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waterso make
thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may trembpresence!  64:3 When thou didst terrible things which we looked
not fomest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence.

64:4 For since ing of the world men have not heard, nor
perceived by the ear, neitherye seen, O God, beside thee,
what he hath prepared for him that waitet

64:5 Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, thosmber thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we have
sinned: in ntinuance, and we shall be saved.

64:6 But we are all as an unclean t our righteousnesses
are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf;r iniquities,
like the wind, have taken us away.

64:7 And there is nolleth upon thy name, that stirreth up
himself to take hold of thee: fot hid thy face from us, and
hast consumed us, because of our iniquitieut now, O LORD, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thou
our pot we all are the work of thy hand.

64:9 Be not wroth very sore, O LORDremember iniquity for
ever: behold, see, we beseech thee, we are all t
64:10 Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness,
Jerusaltion.

64:11 Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers prais burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid
waste.

64:ou refrain thyself for these things, O LORD? wilt thou
hold thy peace,t us very sore?  65:1 I am sought of them
that asked not for me; I am em that sought me not: I said,
Behold me, behold me, unto a nation thacalled by my name.

65:2 I have spread out my hands all the day unto a people,
which walketh in a way that was not good, after their own tho:3 A people that provoketh me to anger continually to my face; that
sain gardens, and burneth incense upon altars of brick; 65:4
Which remai graves, and lodge in the monuments, which eat
swine’s flesh, and brminable things is in their vessels;
65:5 Which say, Stand by thyself, ear to me; for I am holier
than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a burneth all the
day.

65:6 Behold, it is written before me: I will notce, but
will recompense, even recompense into their bosom, 65:7 Your
is, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith the
LORD, which d incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me
upon the hills: theref measure their former work into their
bosom.

65:8 Thus saith the LORDew wine is found in the cluster, and
one saith, Destroy it not; for a is in it: so will I do for
my servants’ sakes, that I may not destro.

65:9 And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah ar of my mountains: and mine elect shall inherit it, and my
servants shhere.

65:10 And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Ae for the herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me.

65 are they that forsake the LORD, that forget my holy
mountain, that pre for that troop, and that furnish the
drink offering unto that numberherefore will I number you to the sword, and ye shall all bow
down to ter: because when I called, ye did not answer; when
I spake, ye did no did evil before mine eyes, and did
choose that wherein I delighted noTherefore thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, my servants shall
eat, but  hungry: behold, my servants shall drink, but ye
shall be thirsty: behvants shall rejoice, but ye shall be
ashamed: 65:14 Behold, my servantng for joy of heart, but ye
shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall hvexation of spirit.

65:15 And ye shall leave your name for a curse unen: for the
Lord GOD shall slay thee, and call his servants by anotherThat he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the
Guth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God
of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they
are hid from mine eyes.

65:17 For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the
former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.

65:18 But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create: for,
behoate Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.

65:19 And I will rejerusalem, and joy in my people: and the
voice of weeping shall be no min her, nor the voice of
crying.

65:20 There shall be no more thence f days, nor an old man
that hath not filled his days: for the child shn hundred
years old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall b.

65:21 And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shalleyards, and eat the fruit of them.

65:22 They shall not build, and anbit; they shall not plant,
and another eat: for as the days of a tree ys of my people,
and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their han23 They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for
theeed of the blessed of the LORD, and their offspring with
them.

65:24  to pass, that before they call, I will answer;
and while they are yet I will hear.

65:25 The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and thll
eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent’s meat.l not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the LORD.

66:1  the LORD, The heaven is my throne, and the earth is my
footstool: wheouse that ye build unto me? and where is the
place of my rest?  66:2 Fse things hath mine hand made, and
all those things have been, saith t: but to this man will I
look, even to him that is poor and of a contr and trembleth
at my word.

66:3 He that killeth an ox is as if he slee that sacrificeth
a lamb, as if he cut off a dog’s neck; he that ofoblation,
as if he offered swine’s blood; he that burneth incense, assed an idol.

Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul de
their abominations.

66:4 I also will choose their delusions, and wileir fears
upon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I spdid not hear: but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that in
whhted not.

66:5 Hear the word of the LORD, ye that tremble at his wordthren that hated you, that cast you out for my name’s sake, said,
Lebe glorified: but he shall appear to your joy, and they
shall be asham A voice of noise from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice
of tat rendereth recompence to his enemies.

66:7 Before she travailed, shorth; before her pain came,
she was delivered of a man child.

66:8 Whd such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall the
earth be made to h in one day? or shall a nation be born at
once?  for as soon as Zion  she brought forth her children.

66:9 Shall I bring to the birth, ande to bring forth? saith
the LORD: shall I cause to bring forth, and shb? saith thy
God.

66:10 Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and be glad with h that
love her: rejoice for joy with her, all ye that mourn for her: 6 ye may suck, and be satisfied with the breasts of her
consolations; t milk out, and be delighted with the
abundance of her glory.

66:12 Foth the LORD, Behold, I will extend peace to her like
a river, and the he Gentiles like a flowing stream: then
shall ye suck, ye shall be borer sides, and be dandled upon
her knees.

66:13 As one whom his motherth, so will I comfort you; and ye
shall be comforted in Jerusalem.

66 ye see this, your heart shall rejoice, and your bones
shall flourish b: and the hand of the LORD shall be known
toward his servants, and hiion toward his enemies.

66:15 For, behold, the LORD will come with fith his chariots
like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and hith
flames of fire.

66:16 For by fire and by his sword will the LORD  all flesh:
and the slain of the LORD shall be many.

66:17 They that emselves, and purify themselves in the
gardens behind one tree in the ing swine’s flesh, and the
abomination, and the mouse, shall be consher, saith the
LORD.

66:18 For I know their works and their thoughts:come, that I
will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come,y
glory.

66:19 And I will set a sign among them, and I will send thoscape of them unto the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, that draw
thTubal, and Javan, to the isles afar off, that have not
heard my fame, e seen my glory; and they shall declare my
glory among the Gentiles.

they shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto the
LORD out oons upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters,
and upon mules, and t beasts, to my holy mountain Jerusalem,
saith the LORD, as the childrl bring an offering in a clean
vessel into the house of the LORD.

66:ll also take of them for priests and for Levites, saith
the LORD.

66:the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make,
shall remain befith the LORD, so shall your seed and your
name remain.

66:23 And it so pass, that from one new moon to another,
and from one sabbath to anoall flesh come to worship
before me, saith the LORD.

66:24 And they sth, and look upon the carcases of the men
that have transgressed again their worm shall not die,
neither shall their fire be quenched; and tn abhorring
unto all flesh.




The Book of the Prophet Jeremiah


1:1of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests that
were in Anathoth iTo whom the word of the
LORD came in the days of Josiah the son of Amo.

1:3 It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of the son of Josiah
king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem e LORD came unto me, saying, 1:5 Before I
formed thee in the belly I ke womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the
natioannot speak: for I am a
child.

1:7 But the LORD said unto me, Say notall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thou
shalt speak.

1:8 Be deliver thee,
saith the LORD.

1:9 Then the LORD put forth his hand, old, I have put my words in thy mouth.

1:10 See, I have this day set oot out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw
down, to build came unto me, saying, Jeremiah,
what seest thou? And I said, I see a nto me, Thou hast well seen: for I will
hasten my word to perform it.
nd time, saying,
What seest thou? And I said, I see a seething pot; an the LORD said unto me, Out of the north an evil shall break
forth upoill call all the families of the kingdoms of the
north, saith the LORD his throne at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem, and against
alle cities of
Judah.

1:16 And I will utter my judgments against them tosaken me, and have burned incense unto other
gods, and worshipped the of their own hands.

1:17 Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise,k unto them
all that I command thee: be not dismayed at their faces, lund thee before them.

1:18 For, behold, I have made thee this day a dty, and an
iron pillar, and brasen walls against the whole land, agaings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests
thereof,t the people of the land.

1:19 And they shall fight against thee; butl not prevail
against thee; for I am with thee, saith the LORD, to del

2:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying, 2:2 Go and cryrs of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; I remember
thee, the kinthy youth, the love of thine espousals, when
thou wentest after me in ess, in a land that was not sown.

2:3 Israel was holiness unto the LOe firstfruits of his
increase: all that devour him shall offend; evil upon them,
saith the LORD.

2:4 Hear ye the word of the LORD, O house and all the
families of the house of Israel: 2:5 Thus saith the LORD, ty have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from
me, and fter vanity, and are become vain?  2:6 Neither
said they, Where is thebrought us up out of the land of
Egypt, that led us through the wilderugh a land of deserts
and of pits, through a land of drought, and of tof death,
through a land that no man passed through, and where no man And I brought you into a plentiful country, to eat the fruit
thereof aness thereof; but when ye entered, ye defiled my
land, and made mine h abomination.

2:8 The priests said not, Where is the LORD? and they tthe
law knew me not: the pastors also transgressed against me, and the prophesied by Baal, and walked after things that do not
profit.

2:9 I will yet plead with you, saith the LORD, and with your
children’s ill I plead.

2:10 For pass over the isles of Chittim, and see; and sedar,
and consider diligently, and see if there be such a thing.

2:11 on changed their gods, which are yet no gods? but my
people have changory for that which doth not profit.

2:12 Be astonished, O ye heavens,and be horribly afraid, be
ye very desolate, saith the LORD.

2:13 Fore have committed two evils; they have forsaken me the
fountain of livis, and hewed them out cisterns, broken
cisterns, that can hold no wates Israel a servant? is he a homeborn slave? why is he spoiled?
2:15 Thns roared upon him, and yelled, and they made his
land waste: his citined without inhabitant.

2:16 Also the children of Noph and Tahapanes  the crown of
thy head.

2:17 Hast thou not procured this unto thyselfthou hast
forsaken the LORD thy God, when he led thee by the way?  2:1hat hast thou to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the waters of
Sihor?st thou to do in the way of Assyria, to drink the
waters of the river?ne own wickedness shall correct thee,
and thy backslidings shall repronow therefore and see that
it is an evil thing and bitter, that thou h the LORD thy
God, and that my fear is not in thee, saith the Lord GOD

2:20 For of old time I have broken thy yoke, and burst thy bands; anst, I will not transgress; when upon every high hill and
under every gthou wanderest, playing the harlot.

2:21 Yet I had planted thee a nobolly a right seed: how
then art thou turned into the degenerate plant ge vine unto
me?  2:22 For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord GOD.

2:2nst thou say, I am not polluted, I have not gone after
Baalim?  see thhe valley, know what thou hast done: thou art
a swift dromedary traverays; 2:24 A wild ass used to the
wilderness, that snuffeth up the windleasure; in her occasion
who can turn her away? all they that seek herweary
themselves; in her month they shall find her.

2:25 Withhold thybeing unshod, and thy throat from thirst:
but thou saidst, There is no for I have loved strangers, and
after them will I go.

2:26 As the thamed when he is found, so is the house of
Israel ashamed; they, their ir princes, and their priests,
and their prophets.

2:27 Saying to a s art my father; and to a stone, Thou hast
brought me forth: for they h their back unto me, and not
their face: but in the time of their trouill say, Arise, and
save us.

2:28 But where are thy gods that thou haee? let them arise,
if they can save thee in the time of thy trouble: ng to the
number of thy cities are thy gods, O Judah.

2:29 Wherefore ad with me? ye all have transgressed against
me, saith the LORD.

2:30ave I smitten your children; they received no
correction: your own swovoured your prophets, like a
destroying lion.

2:31 O generation, see rd of the LORD. Have I been a
wilderness unto Israel? a land of darknere say my people,
We are lords; we will come no more unto thee?  2:32 forget
her ornaments, or a bride her attire? yet my people have forgots without number.

2:33 Why trimmest thou thy way to seek love? therefou also
taught the wicked ones thy ways.

2:34 Also in thy skirts is flood of the souls of the poor
innocents: I have not found it by secretut upon all these.

2:35 Yet thou sayest, Because I am innocent, surelr shall
turn from me. Behold, I will plead with thee, because thou sayve not sinned.

2:36 Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way? shalt
be ashamed of Egypt, as thou wast ashamed of Assyria.

2:37 Yealt go forth from him, and thine hands upon thine
head: for the LORD ha thy confidences, and thou shalt not
prosper in them.

3:1 They say, I away his wife, and she go from him, and
become another man’s, shallunto her again? shall not that
land be greatly polluted? but thou hast harlot with many
lovers; yet return again to me, saith the LORD.

3:2hine eyes unto the high places, and see where thou hast
not been lien the ways hast thou sat for them, as the Arabian
in the wilderness; andt polluted the land with thy whoredoms
and with thy wickedness.

3:3 Te showers have been withholden, and there hath been no
latter rain; anst a whore’s forehead, thou refusedst to be
ashamed.

3:4 Wilt thou his time cry unto me, My father, thou art the
guide of my youth?  3:5 erve his anger for ever? will he
keep it to the end?  Behold, thou hasd done evil things as
thou couldest.

3:6 The LORD said also unto me iof Josiah the king, Hast
thou seen that which backsliding Israel hath is gone up upon
every high mountain and under every green tree, and thayed
the harlot.

3:7 And I said after she had done all these things, unto me.
But she returned not. And her treacherous sister Judah saw itI saw, when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel
committed add put her away, and given her a bill of
divorce; yet her treacherous sh feared not, but went and
played the harlot also.

3:9 And it came tough the lightness of her whoredom, that
she defiled the land, and commery with stones and with
stocks.

3:10 And yet for all this her treachJudah hath not turned
unto me with her whole heart, but feignedly, saie LORD.

3:11 And the LORD said unto me, The backsliding Israel hath jherself more than treacherous Judah.

3:12 Go and proclaim these words north, and say, Return,
thou backsliding Israel, saith the LORD; and  cause mine
anger to fall upon you: for I am merciful, saith the LORD,l
not keep anger for ever.

3:13 Only acknowledge thine iniquity, thatt transgressed
against the LORD thy God, and hast scattered thy ways tgers
under every green tree, and ye have not obeyed my voice, saith th:14 Turn, O backsliding children, saith the LORD; for I am married
unt I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and
I will bring n: 3:15 And I will give you pastors according
to mine heart, which sha with knowledge and understanding.

3:16 And it shall come to pass, whultiplied and increased in
the land, in those days, saith the LORD, thay no more, The
ark of the covenant of the LORD: neither shall it comeeither shall they remember it; neither shall they visit it; neither
sh done any more.

3:17 At that time they shall call Jerusalem the thronRD;
and all the nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of the
erusalem: neither shall they walk any more after the
imagination of theart.

3:18 In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house, and they shall come together out of the land of the north to
the lanhave given for an inheritance unto your fathers.

3:19 But I said, Howut thee among the children, and give
thee a pleasant land, a goodly hethe hosts of nations? and I
said, Thou shalt call me, My father; and srn away from me.

3:20 Surely as a wife treacherously departeth from h so
have ye dealt treacherously with me, O house of Israel, saith the
1 A voice was heard upon the high places, weeping and supplications
ofren of Israel: for they have perverted their way, and they
have forgotD their God.

3:22 Return, ye backsliding children, and I will heal yolidings.

Behold, we come unto thee; for thou art the LORD our God.

3n vain is salvation hoped for from the hills, and from the
multitude os: truly in the LORD our God is the salvation of
Israel.

3:24 For shavoured the labour of our fathers from our youth;
their flocks and theieir sons and their daughters.

3:25 We lie down in our shame, and our vereth us: for we
have sinned against the LORD our God, we and our fathers, from our
youth even unto this day, and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD
our God.

4:1 If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith the LORD, return unto me: and
if thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my sight, then shalt
thou not remove.

4:2 And thou shalt swear, TheD liveth, in truth, in judgment, and
in righteousness; and the nationsess themselves in him, and
in him shall they glory.

4:3 For thus sait to the men of Judah and Jerusalem, Break
up your fallow ground, and sng thorns.

4:4 Circumcise yourselves to the LORD, and take away the foreskins of
your heart, ye men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem: lest my fury
come forth like fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of the
evil of your doings.

4:5 Declare ye in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, Blow ye
the trumpet in the land: cry, gather together, and say, Assemble
yourselves, and let us go into the defenccities.

4:6 Set up the standard toward Zion: retire, stay not: for I  evil from the north, and a great destruction.

4:7 The lion is come u thicket, and the destroyer of the
Gentiles is on his way; he is gone  his place to make thy
land desolate; and thy cities shall be laid wast an
inhabitant.

4:8 For this gird you with sackcloth, lament and howe fierce
anger of the LORD is not turned back from us.

4:9 And it shao pass at that day, saith the LORD, that the
heart of the king shall pd the heart of the princes; and the
priests shall be astonished, and ts shall wonder.

4:10 Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! surely thou hast greaed this
people and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas thecheth unto the soul.

4:11 At that time shall it be said to this peoplrusalem, A
dry wind of the high places in the wilderness toward the dar of
my people, not to fan, nor to cleanse, 4:12 Even a full wind fromces shall come unto me: now also will I give sentence against
them.

4, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots shall be as
a whirlwinds are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us! for we
are spoiled.

4:14 O Jeash thine heart from wickedness, that thou mayest
be saved. How long sin thoughts lodge within thee?  4:15
For a voice declareth from Dan, aeth affliction from mount
Ephraim.

4:16 Make ye mention to the nationpublish against
Jerusalem, that watchers come from a far country, and heir
voice against the cities of Judah.

4:17 As keepers of a field, aainst her round about; because
she hath been rebellious against me, saRD.

4:18 Thy way and thy doings have procured these things unto thee;hy wickedness, because it is bitter, because it reacheth unto
thine he19 My bowels, my bowels! I am pained at my very heart; my heart
makethn me; I cannot hold my peace, because thou hast heard,
O my soul, the he trumpet, the alarm of war.

4:20 Destruction upon destruction is cre whole land is
spoiled: suddenly are my tents spoiled, and my curtainnt.

4:21 How long shall I see the standard, and hear the sound of the 4:22 For my people is foolish, they have not known me; they
are sottin, and they have none understanding: they are wise
to do evil, but to ey have no knowledge.

4:23 I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was withound void; and
the heavens, and they had no light.

4:24 I beheld the mo, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hills
moved lightly.

4:25 I behlo, there was no man, and all the birds of the
heavens were fled.

4:2d, and, lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness, and all
the cities thbroken down at the presence of the LORD, and
by his fierce anger.

4:2 hath the LORD said, The whole land shall be desolate;
yet will I not  end.

4:28 For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be buse I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and will not repent,
neithern back from it.

4:29 The whole city shall flee for the noise of the hmen and
bowmen; they shall go into thickets, and climb up upon the roc city shall be forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.

4:30 And when toiled, what wilt thou do? Though thou
clothest thyself with crimson, tdeckest thee with ornaments
of gold, though thou rentest thy face with in vain shalt
thou make thyself fair; thy lovers will despise thee, teek
thy life.

4:31 For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail,nguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child, the voice of
theof Zion, that bewaileth herself, that spreadeth her
hands, saying, Woe for my soul is wearied because of
murderers.

5:1 Run ye to and fro t streets of Jerusalem, and see now,
and know, and seek in the broad pleof, if ye can find a man,
if there be any that executeth judgment, ththe truth; and I
will pardon it.

5:2 And though they say, The LORD lily they swear falsely.

5:3 O LORD, are not thine eyes upon the truth?stricken
them, but they have not grieved; thou hast consumed them, bute refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder
thathey have refused to return.

5:4 Therefore I said, Surely these are pare foolish: for
they know not the way of the LORD, nor the judgment oGod.

5:5 I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them; have known the way of the LORD, and the judgment of their God:
but theltogether broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.

5:6 Wherefore a lion forest shall slay them, and a wolf of
the evenings shall spoil them, aall watch over their
cities: every one that goeth out thence shall be eces:
because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings ard.

5:7 How shall I pardon thee for this? thy children have forsaken mrn by them that are no gods: when I had fed them to the full,
they the adultery, and assembled themselves by troops in
the harlots’ housesy were as fed horses in the morning: every one neighed after
his neigh.

5:9 Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: and shall n be avenged on such a nation as this?  5:10 Go ye up upon her
walls, a make not a full end: take away her
battlements; for they are not the D’s.

5:11 For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealtcherously against me, saith the LORD.

5:12 They have belied the LORD, It is not he; neither shall
evil come upon us; neither shall we see smine: 5:13 And the
prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in shall it
be done unto them.

5:14 Wherefore thus saith the LORD God ofcause ye speak this
word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fiis people
wood, and it shall devour them.

5:15 Lo, I will bring a natu from far, O house of Israel,
saith the LORD: it is a mighty nation, cient nation, a
nation whose language thou knowest not, neither unders
they say.

5:16 Their quiver is as an open sepulchre, they are all mi
5:17 And they shall eat up thine harvest, and thy bread, which thy
soaughters should eat: they shall eat up thy flocks and
thine herds: thet up thy vines and thy fig trees: they shall
impoverish thy fenced citrein thou trustedst, with the sword.

5:18 Nevertheless in those days, LORD, I will not make a
full end with you.

5:19 And it shall come to ye shall say, Wherefore doeth the
LORD our God all these things unto halt thou answer them,
Like as ye have forsaken me, and served strangeour land, so
shall ye serve strangers in a land that is not yours.

5: this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah,
saying, 5:21 Hea, O foolish people, and without
understanding; which have eyes, and sech have ears, and hear
not: 5:22 Fear ye not me? saith the LORD: will mble at my
presence, which have placed the sand for the bound of the spetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereof
tolves, yet can they not prevail; though they roar, yet can
they not pas  5:23 But this people hath a revolting and a
rebellious heart; they ad and gone.

5:24 Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear theGod, that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in his season:
h unto us the appointed weeks of the harvest.

5:25 Your iniquities haaway these things, and your sins have
withholden good things from you.among my people are found wicked men: they lay wait, as he
that settet they set a trap, they catch men.

5:27 As a cage is full of birds, sor houses full of deceit:
therefore they are become great, and waxen riThey are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of
the wijudge not the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet
they prosper; an of the needy do they not judge.

5:29 Shall I not visit for these thih the LORD: shall not my
soul be avenged on such a nation as this?  5:rful and
horrible thing is committed in the land; 5:31 The prophets prely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people love
to h: and what will ye do in the end thereof?  6:1 O ye
children of Benjamr yourselves to flee out of the midst of
Jerusalem, and blow the trumpa, and set up a sign of fire in
Bethhaccerem: for evil appeareth out oth, and great
destruction.

6:2 I have likened the daughter of Zion toand delicate
woman.

6:3 The shepherds with their flocks shall come unhey shall
pitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed en his place.

6:4 Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up e
unto us! for the day goeth away, for the shadows of the evening are
out.

6:5 Arise, and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palacer thus hath the LORD of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast
a moun Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is
wholly oppression it of her.

6:7 As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth ouedness: violence and spoil is heard in her; before me continually
is gounds.

6:8 Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from  I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited.

6:9 Thus saith the LORD They shall throughly glean the
remnant of Israel as a vine: turn back  as a grapegatherer
into the baskets.

6:10 To whom shall I speak, andning, that they may hear?
behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and theyhearken: behold,
the word of the LORD is unto them a reproach; they haight in
it.

6:11 Therefore I am full of the fury of the LORD; I am weing in: I will pour it out upon the children abroad, and upon the
asseof young men together: for even the husband with the wife
shall be taked with him that is full of days.

6:12 And their houses shall be turnhers, with their fields
and wives together: for I will stretch out my he
inhabitants of the land, saith the LORD.

6:13 For from the least on unto the greatest of them every
one is given to covetousness; and frophet even unto the
priest every one dealeth falsely.

6:14 They have lso the hurt of the daughter of my people
slightly, saying, Peace, peahere is no peace.

6:15 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomay, they
were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore  fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them they
shall bn, saith the LORD.

6:16 Thus saith the LORD, Stand ye in the ways, anask for
the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein.

6:17 Awatchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the
trumpet. But th We will not hearken.

6:18 Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O con, what is
among them.

6:19 Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil people, even
the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkey
words, nor to my law, but rejected it.

6:20 To what purpose cometh me incense from Sheba, and the
sweet cane from a far country? your burgs are not
acceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me.

6:21 Therefaith the LORD, Behold, I will lay stumblingblocks
before this people, athers and the sons together shall fall
upon them; the neighbour and hshall perish.

6:22 Thus saith the LORD, Behold, a people cometh from country, and a great nation shall be raised from the sides of the
earthey shall lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no
mercyice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses,
set in array as m against thee, O daughter of Zion.

6:24 We have heard the fame thereonds wax feeble: anguish
hath taken hold of us, and pain, as of a womanil.

6:25 Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sw enemy and fear is on every side.

6:26 O daughter of my people, gird  sackcloth, and wallow
thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an, most bitter
lamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us I have set thee for a tower and a fortress among my people, that
thouw and try their way.

6:28 They are all grievous revolters, walking wi: they are
brass and iron; they are all corrupters.

6:29 The bellows , the lead is consumed of the fire; the
founder melteth in vain: for tare not plucked away.

6:30 Reprobate silver shall men call them, becaRD hath
rejected them.

7:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LO, 7:2 Stand in
the gate of the LORD’s house, and proclaim there this say,
Hear the word of the LORD, all ye of Judah, that enter in at theo worship the LORD.

7:3 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israour ways
and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place. ye not in lying words, saying, The temple of the LORD, The
temple of The temple of the LORD, are these.

7:5 For if ye throughly amend youryour doings; if ye
throughly execute judgment between a man and his ne6 If ye
oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and snocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your
hurt will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land
that I gave to yrs, for ever and ever.

7:8 Behold, ye trust in lying words, that cann

7:9 Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, aincense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye know not;
7:10 An stand before me in this house, which is called by my
name, and say, Wered to do all these abominations?  7:11 Is
this house, which is calleme, become a den of robbers in
your eyes? Behold, even I have seen it, LORD.

7:12 But go ye now unto my place which was in Shiloh, where I  at the first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my
peopl

7:13 And now, because ye have done all these works, saith the LORD,
unto you, rising up early and speaking, but ye heard not;
and I called, but ye answered not; 7:14 Therefore will I do unto
this house, whichby my name, wherein ye trust, and unto the
place which I gave to you a fathers, as I have done to
Shiloh.

7:15 And I will cast you out of m I have cast out all your
brethren, even the whole seed of Ephraim.

7re pray not thou for this people, neither lift up cry nor
prayer for ter make intercession to me: for I will not hear
thee.

7:17 Seest thouthey do in the cities of Judah and in the
streets of Jerusalem?  7:18 en gather wood, and the fathers
kindle the fire, and the women knead t, to make cakes to the
queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offeringher gods, that
they may provoke me to anger.

7:19 Do they provoke me saith the LORD: do they not provoke
themselves to the confusion of thewn faces?  7:20 Therefore thus
saith the Lord GOD; Behold, mine anger y shall be poured out
upon this place, upon man, and upon beast, and urees of the
field, and upon the fruit of the ground; and it shall burnall
not be quenched.

7:21 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Is your burnt
offerings unto your sacrifices, and eat flesh.

7:22 For It unto your fathers, nor commanded them in the day
that I brought theme land of Egypt, concerning burnt
offerings or sacrifices: 7:23 But thommanded I them, saying,
Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye my people: and
walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, thabe well
unto you.

7:24 But they hearkened not, nor inclined their earked in the
counsels and in the imagination of their evil heart, and wed, and not forward.

7:25 Since the day that your fathers came forth oland of
Egypt unto this day I have even sent unto you all my servants ts, daily rising up early and sending them: 7:26 Yet they
hearkened no nor inclined their ear, but hardened their
neck: they did worse than hers.

7:27 Therefore thou shalt speak all these words unto them; but not hearken to thee: thou shalt also call unto them; but they
will note.

7:28 But thou shalt say unto them, This is a nation that obeyeth nce of the LORD their God, nor receiveth correction: truth is
perished,t off from their mouth.

7:29 Cut off thine hair, O Jerusalem, and casand take up a
lamentation on high places; for the LORD hath rejected an
the generation of his wrath.

7:30 For the children of Judah have do my sight, saith the
LORD: they have set their abominations in the hous called by
my name, to pollute it.

7:31 And they have built the high Tophet, which is in the
valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their soir daughters in
the fire; which I commanded them not, neither came it eart.

7:32 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it ore be called Tophet, nor the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the
valghter: for they shall bury in Tophet, till there be no
place.

7:33 Ans of this people shall be meat for the fowls of
the heaven, and for thof the earth; and none shall fray them
away.

7:34 Then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the
streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness,
the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride: for the land
shall be desolate.

8:1 At that time, saith the LORD, they shall bring out the bones of
the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the
prieshe bones of the prophets, and the bones of the
inhabitants of Jerusaletheir graves: 8:2 And they shall
spread them before the sun, and the mhe host of heaven,
whom they have loved, and whom they have served, analked, and whom they have sought, and whom they have worshipped:
they shall be for dung upon
the face of the earth.

8:3 And death shall be er than life by all the residue of
them that remain of this evil familemain in all the places
whither I have driven them, saith the LORD of 4 Moreover thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; Shall they
ft arise? shall he turn away, and not return?  8:5 Why then
is this peousalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding?
they hold fast deceit,e to return.

8:6 I hearkened and heard, but they spake not aright: nopented
him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? every one turncourse, as the horse rusheth into the battle.

8:7 Yea, the stork in tn knoweth her appointed times; and the
turtle and the crane and the swrve the time of their coming;
but my people know not the judgment of tORD.

8:8 How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with tainly in vain made he it; the pen of the scribes is in vain.

8:9 Theare ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: lo, they
have rejected the wLORD; and what wisdom is in them?  8:10
Therefore will I give their withers, and their fields to
them that shall inherit them: for every oneeast even unto
the greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophetthe
priest every one dealeth falsely.

8:11 For they have healed the hdaughter of my people
slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no12 Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they
weall ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shall
they fall amongfall: in the time of their visitation they
shall be cast down, saith t:13 I will surely consume them, saith the LORD: there shall be no
grapvine, nor figs on the fig tree, and the leaf shall fade;
and the thingave given them shall pass away from them.

8:14 Why do we sit still? aurselves, and let us enter into
the defenced cities, and let us be sile: for the LORD our God
hath put us to silence, and given us water of ink, because
we have sinned against the LORD.

8:15 We looked for peacgood came; and for a time of health,
and behold trouble!  8:16 The snois horses was heard from
Dan: the whole land trembled at the sound of  of his
strong ones; for they are come, and have devoured the land, anis in it; the city, and those that dwell therein.

8:17 For, behold, I serpents, cockatrices, among you, which
will not be charmed, and theye you, saith the LORD.

8:18 When I would comfort myself against sorro is faint in
me.

8:19 Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of ecause
of them that dwell in a far country: Is not the LORD in Zion? iking in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven
imagth strange vanities?  8:20 The harvest is past, the
summer is ended, anot saved.

8:21 For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt; ;
astonishment hath taken hold on me.

8:22 Is there no balm in Gilead no physician there? why then
is not the health of the daughter of my overed?  9:1 Oh that
my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of at I might
weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my peop Oh
that I had in the wilderness a lodging place of wayfaring men; thaleave my people, and go from them! for they be all adulterers,
an assereacherous men.

9:3 And they bend their tongues like their bow for liy are
not valiant for the truth upon the earth; for they proceed from il, and they know not me, saith the LORD.

9:4 Take ye heed every one ghbour, and trust ye not in any
brother: for every brother will utterl, and every neighbour
will walk with slanders.

9:5 And they will dece one his neighbour, and will not speak
the truth: they have taught thee to speak lies, and weary
themselves to commit iniquity.

9:6 Thine his in the midst of deceit; through deceit they
refuse to know me, sait.

9:7 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, I will melt they them; for how shall I do for the daughter of my people?  9:8
Their ts an arrow shot out; it speaketh deceit: one speaketh
peaceably to his with his mouth, but in heart he layeth his
wait.

9:9 Shall I not visr these things? saith the LORD: shall not
my soul be avenged on such as this?  9:10 For the mountains
will I take up a weeping and wailing, e habitations of the
wilderness a lamentation, because they are burnedso that none can
pass through them; neither can men hear the voice of ; both
the fowl of the heavens and the beast are fled; they are gone.
 I will make Jerusalem heaps, and a den of dragons; and I will
make th Judah desolate, without an inhabitant.

9:12 Who is the wise man, thaerstand this? and who is he to
whom the mouth of the LORD hath spoken,eclare it, for
what the land perisheth and is burned up like a wilderness, that none
passeth through?  9:13 And the LORD saith, Because theyaken
my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, nei therein; 9:14 But have walked after the imagination of their
own hearer Baalim, which their fathers taught them: 9:15
Therefore thus saith  hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I
will feed them, even this people,ood, and give them water
of gall to drink.

9:16 I will scatter them athe heathen, whom neither they nor
their fathers have known: and I wilord after them, till I
have consumed them.

9:17 Thus saith the LORD oonsider ye, and call for the
mourning women, that they may come; and snning women, that
they may come: 9:18 And let them make haste, and taking for
us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gus waters.

9:19 For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are wewe are greatly confounded, because we have forsaken the land, because
ngs have cast us out.

9:20 Yet hear the word of the LORD, O ye women,ur ear
receive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters wailing one her neighbour lamentation.

9:21 For death is come up into our wiand is entered into our
palaces, to cut off the children from without,e young men from
the streets.

9:22 Speak, Thus saith the LORD, Even ts of men shall fall
as dung upon the open field, and as the handful afrvestman,
and none shall gather them.

9:23 Thus saith the LORD, Let ne man glory in his wisdom,
neither let the mighty man glory in his migt the rich man
glory in his riches: 9:24 But let him that glorieth glo,
that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the LORD which
exerckindness, judgment, and righteousness, in the earth:
for in these thinht, saith the LORD.

9:25 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that sh all
them which are circumcised with the uncircumcised; 9:26 Egypt, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all that are
in theners, that dwell in the wilderness: for all these
nations are uncircumand all the house of Israel are
uncircumcised in the heart.

10:1 Hearrd which the LORD speaketh unto you, O house of
Israel: 10:2 Thus sait, Learn not the way of the heathen,
and be not dismayed at the signs ofor the heathen are
dismayed at them.

10:3 For the customs of the peon: for one cutteth a tree
out of the forest, the work of the hands of n, with the axe.

10:4 They deck it with silver and with gold; they fath nails
and with hammers, that it move not.

10:5 They are upright asree, but speak not: they must needs
be borne, because they cannot go. raid of them; for they
cannot do evil, neither also is it in them to d0:6 Forasmuch as there is none like unto thee, O LORD; thou art
great,me is great in might.

10:7 Who would not fear thee, O King of nationshee doth it
appertain: forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nati
all their kingdoms, there is none like unto thee.

10:8 But they are brutish and foolish: the stock is a
doctrine of vanities.

10:9 Silverto plates is brought from Tarshish, and gold from
Uphaz, the work of t and of the hands of the founder: blue
and purple is their clothing: t the work of cunning men.

10:10 But the LORD is the true God, he is t God, and an
everlasting king: at his wrath the earth shall tremble, aons shall not be able to abide his indignation.

10:11 Thus shall ye sem, The gods that have not made the
heavens and the earth, even they sh from the earth, and from
under these heavens.

10:12 He hath made th his power, he hath established the
world by his wisdom, and hath strehe heavens by his
discretion.

10:13 When he uttereth his voice, thereitude of waters in
the heavens, and he causeth the vapours to ascend fds of the
earth; he maketh lightnings with rain, and bringeth forth th
of his treasures.

10:14 Every man is brutish in his knowledge: everys
confounded by the graven image: for his molten image is falsehood, ais no breath in them.

10:15 They are vanity, and the work of errors: e of their
visitation they shall perish.

10:16 The portion of Jacob i them: for he is the former of
all things; and Israel is the rod of hiritance: The LORD of
hosts is his name.

10:17 Gather up thy wares outand, O inhabitant of the
fortress.

10:18 For thus saith the LORD, Beh sling out the
inhabitants of the land at this once, and will distresst
they may find it so.

10:19 Woe is me for my hurt! my wound is griev I said, Truly
this is a grief, and I must bear it.

10:20 My tabernaced, and all my cords are broken: my
children are gone forth of me, and not: there is none to
stretch forth my tent any more, and to set up m

10:21 For the pastors are become brutish, and have not sought the
LOre they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall be
scattered.

1ld, the noise of the bruit is come, and a great commotion
out of the nry, to make the cities of Judah desolate, and a
den of dragons.

10:23 know that the way of man is not in himself: it is not
in man that walect his steps.

10:24 O LORD, correct me, but with judgment; not in th lest
thou bring me to nothing.

10:25 Pour out thy fury upon the heatow thee not, and upon
the families that call not on thy name: for theyn up Jacob,
and devoured him, and consumed him, and have made his habiolate.

11:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD saying, 11:2he words of this covenant, and speak unto the men of Judah, and to
thets of Jerusalem; 11:3 And say thou unto them, Thus saith
the LORD God  Cursed be the man that obeyeth not the words
of this covenant, 11:4 Wanded your fathers in the day that
I brought them forth out of the lan, from the iron furnace,
saying, Obey my voice, and do them, accordingich I command
you: so shall ye be my people, and I will be your God: 1 may
perform the oath which I have sworn unto your fathers, to give thlowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. Then answered I,
and sat, O LORD.

11:6 Then the LORD said unto me, Proclaim all these words es of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear ye the
wordcovenant, and do them.

11:7 For I earnestly protested unto your fatheday that I
brought them up out of the land of Egypt, even unto this da
early and protesting, saying, Obey my voice.

11:8 Yet they obeyed nolined their ear, but walked every one
in the imagination of their evilrefore I will bring upon
them all the words of this covenant, which I hem to do: but
they did them not.

11:9 And the LORD said unto me, A cis found among the men of
Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalehey are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers,
which refur my words; and they went after other gods to
serve them: the house of the house of Judah have broken my
covenant which I made with their fa:11 Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil upon
themhey shall not be able to escape; and though they shall
cry unto me, I earken unto them.

11:12 Then shall the cities of Judah and inhabitantalem go,
and cry unto the gods unto whom they offer incense: but they ave them at all in the time of their trouble.

11:13 For according to  of thy cities were thy gods, O
Judah; and according to the number of s of Jerusalem have ye
set up altars to that shameful thing, even alta incense unto
Baal.

11:14 Therefore pray not thou for this people, ne up a cry
or prayer for them: for I will not hear them in the time thaunto me for their trouble.

11:15 What hath my beloved to do in mine hng she hath
wrought lewdness with many, and the holy flesh is passed fwhen thou doest evil, then thou rejoicest.

11:16 The LORD called thy een olive tree, fair, and of
goodly fruit: with the noise of a great tath kindled fire
upon it, and the branches of it are broken.

11:17 Foof hosts, that planted thee, hath pronounced evil
against thee, for th the house of Israel and of the house of
Judah, which they have done amselves to provoke me to anger
in offering incense unto Baal.

11:18 AD hath given me knowledge of it, and I know it: then
thou shewedst me ings.

11:19 But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slad I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, Let
us e tree with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him off
from the land ofat his name may be no more remembered.

11:20 But, O LORD of hosts, thjudgest righteously, that triest the
reins and the heart, let me see tce on them: for unto thee
have I revealed my cause.

11:21 Therefore th the LORD of the men of Anathoth, that seek
thy life, saying, Propheshe name of the LORD, that thou die
not by our hand: 11:22 Therefore thhe LORD of hosts, Behold,
I will punish them: the young men shall die ord; their sons
and their daughters shall die by famine: 11:23 And the shall be no
remnant of them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even
the year of their visitation.

12:1 Righteous art thou, O LORD, when I plead with thee: yet let me
talk with thee of thy judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked
prosper?  wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously?
12:2 Thou hast planted them, they have taken root: they grow,
yea, they bring forth fruit: thou artheir mouth, and far
from their reins.

12:3 But thou, O LORD, knowest ast seen me, and tried mine
heart toward thee: pull them out like sheee slaughter, and
prepare them for the day of slaughter.

12:4 How long land mourn, and the herbs of every field
wither, for the wickedness o dwell therein? the beasts are
consumed, and the birds; because they sll not see our last
end.

12:5 If thou hast run with the footmen, and wearied thee,
then how canst thou contend with horses? and if in the lce,
wherein thou trustedst, they wearied thee, then how wilt thou do iing of Jordan?  12:6 For even thy brethren, and the house of
thy fathey have dealt treacherously with thee; yea, they
have called a multitudhee: believe them not, though they
speak fair words unto thee.

12:7 Isaken mine house, I have left mine heritage; I have
given the dearly bmy soul into the hand of her enemies.

12:8 Mine heritage is unto me a the forest; it crieth out
against me: therefore have I hated it.

12:itage is unto me as a speckled bird, the birds round
about are againstye, assemble all the beasts of the field,
come to devour.

12:10 Many ve destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my
portion under foot, the my pleasant portion a desolate
wilderness.

12:11 They have made it dnd being desolate it mourneth unto
me; the whole land is made desolateno man layeth it to
heart.

12:12 The spoilers are come upon all high ugh the
wilderness: for the sword of the LORD shall devour from the onhe land even to the other end of the land: no flesh shall have peace.
 have sown wheat, but shall reap thorns: they have put
themselves to phall not profit: and they shall be ashamed of
your revenues because ofr of the LORD.

12:14 Thus saith the LORD against all mine evil neighbthat touch
the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit;
Behold, I will pluck them out of their land, and pluck out the house
of Judah from among them.

12:15 And it shall come to pass, after that I have plucked them out I
will return, and have compassion on them, and will bring them again,
every man to his heritage, and every mand.

12:16 And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn thy people, to swear by my name, The LORD liveth; as they
taught my peop by Baal; then shall they be built in the
midst of my people.

12:17 Bill not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy
that nation, saith t3:1 Thus saith the LORD unto me, Go and get thee a linen girdle, and
p thy loins, and put it not in water.

13:2 So I got a girdle accordingd of the LORD, and put it
on my loins.

13:3 And the word of the LORD e the second time, saying,
13:4 Take the girdle that thou hast got, whthy loins, and
arise, go to Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole of 3:5 So I went, and hid it by Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.

13:me to pass after many days, that the LORD said unto me,
Arise, go to Ed take the girdle from thence, which I
commanded thee to hide there.

went to Euphrates, and digged, and took the girdle from
the place wherit: and, behold, the girdle was marred, it
was profitable for nothing.the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 13:9 Thus saith
the LORD, Anner will I mar the pride of Judah, and the
great pride of Jerusalem.
is evil people, which refuse to hear my words, which walk in
the imagiheir heart, and walk after other gods, to serve
them, and to worship tven be as this girdle, which is good
for nothing.

13:11 For as the gith to the loins of a man, so have I
caused to cleave unto me the wholesrael and the whole house
of Judah, saith the LORD; that they might be a people, and
for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they
hear.

13:12 Therefore thou shalt speak unto them this word; Thus saiD God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they
shalthee, Do we not certainly know that every bottle shall
be filled with  Then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith
the LORD, Behold, I will finhabitants of this land, even
the kings that sit upon David’s throneriests, and the
prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with d

13:14 And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers andgether, saith the LORD: I will not pity, nor spare, nor
have mercy, buem.

13:15 Hear ye, and give ear; be not proud: for the LORD hath spok16 Give glory to the LORD your God, before he cause darkness, and
befot stumble upon the dark mountains, and, while ye look
for light, he tuthe shadow of death, and make it gross
darkness.

13:17 But if ye will, my soul shall weep in secret places
for your pride; and mine eye shae, and run down with tears,
because the LORD’s flock is carried away
13:18 Say unto the king and to the queen, Humble yourselves, sit downprincipalities shall come down, even the crown of your glory.

13:19 T the south shall be shut up, and none shall open
them: Judah shall be way captive all of it, it shall be
wholly carried away captive.

13:20ur eyes, and behold them that come from the north:
where is the flock ven thee, thy beautiful flock?  13:21
What wilt thou say when he shalle? for thou hast taught
them to be captains, and as chief over thee: srrows take
thee, as a woman in travail?  13:22 And if thou say in thinerefore come these things upon me?  For the greatness of thine
iniquitkirts discovered, and thy heels made bare.

13:23 Can the Ethiopian chin, or the leopard his spots?
then may ye also do good, that are accus evil.

13:24 Therefore will I scatter them as the stubble that passethe wind of the wilderness.

13:25 This is thy lot, the portion of thy om me, saith the
LORD; because thou hast forgotten me, and trusted in 13:26 Therefore will I discover thy skirts upon thy face, that thy
shar.

13:27 I have seen thine adulteries, and thy neighings, the lewdneshoredom, and thine abominations on the hills in the fields. Woe
unto tsalem! wilt thou not be made clean? when shall it
once be?  14:1 The wORD that came to Jeremiah concerning
the dearth.

14:2 Judah mourneth,tes thereof languish; they are black
unto the ground; and the cry of Jis gone up.

14:3 And their nobles have sent their little ones to the ey
came to the pits, and found no water; they returned with their vessthey were ashamed and confounded, and covered their heads.

14:4 Becaud is chapt, for there was no rain in the earth,
the plowmen were ashamered their heads.

14:5 Yea, the hind also calved in the field, and fobecause
there was no grass.

14:6 And the wild asses did stand in the , they snuffed up
the wind like dragons; their eyes did fail, because o
grass.

14:7 O LORD, though our iniquities testify against us, do thhy name’s sake: for our backslidings are many; we have sinned agains4:8 O the hope of Israel, the saviour thereof in time of trouble, why
hou be as a stranger in the land, and as a wayfaring man
that turneth ry for a night?  14:9 Why shouldest thou be
as a man astonied, as a mit cannot save? yet thou, O LORD,
art in the midst of us, and we are caame; leave us not.

14:10 Thus saith the LORD unto this people, Thus hved to
wander, they have not refrained their feet, therefore the LORD ept them; he will now remember their iniquity, and visit their
sins.

aid the LORD unto me, Pray not for this people for their
good.

14:12 fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer
burnt offering an, I will not accept them: but I will
consume them by the sword, and byamine, and by the pestilence.

14:13 Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! beholdts say unto them,
Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have fawill
give you assured peace in this place.

14:14 Then the LORD said u prophets prophesy lies in my
name: I sent them not, neither have I co, neither spake
unto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision and dnd a
thing of nought, and the deceit of their heart.

14:15 Therefore the LORD concerning the prophets that
prophesy in my name, and I sent yet they say, Sword and
famine shall not be in this land; By sword andall those
prophets be consumed.

14:16 And the people to whom they probe cast out in the
streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the they
shall have none to bury them, them, their wives, nor their sons, aughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.

14:17 Thereforelt say this word unto them; Let mine eyes run
down with tears night anlet them not cease: for the virgin
daughter of my people is broken witreach, with a very
grievous blow.

14:18 If I go forth into the field,ld the slain with the
sword!  and if I enter into the city, then beholt are sick
with famine!  yea, both the prophet and the priest go aboutd that they know not.

14:19 Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thothed Zion? why
hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? for
peace, and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and beho  14:20 We acknowledge, O LORD, our wickedness, and the
iniquity of oufor we have sinned against thee.

14:21 Do not abhor us, for thy name not disgrace the throne
of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenan
14:22 Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can causean the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O LORD our
God?  therefowait upon thee: for thou hast made all these
things.

15:1 Then said t me, Though Moses and Samuel stood before
me, yet my mind could not be people: cast them out of my
sight, and let them go forth.

15:2 And ie to pass, if they say unto thee, Whither shall
we go forth? then thou them, Thus saith the LORD; Such as
are for death, to death; and such the sword, to the sword;
and such as are for the famine, to the famines are for the
captivity, to the captivity.

15:3 And I will appoint ovr kinds, saith the LORD: the
sword to slay, and the dogs to tear, and of the heaven, and
the beasts of the earth, to devour and destroy.

15l cause them to be removed into all kingdoms of the
earth, because of e son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for that
which he did in Jerusalem.

 shall have pity upon thee, O Jerusalem? or who shall
bemoan thee? or go aside to ask how thou doest?  15:6 Thou
hast forsaken me, saith theart gone backward: therefore
will I stretch out my hand against thee,  thee; I am weary
with repenting.

15:7 And I will fan them with a fanes of the land; I will
bereave them of children, I will destroy my peohey return
not from their ways.

15:8 Their widows are increased to mesand of the seas: I
have brought upon them against the mother of the ypoiler
at noonday: I have caused him to fall upon it suddenly, and terhe city.

15:9 She that hath borne seven languisheth: she hath given ut; her sun is gone down while it was yet day: she hath been
ashamed and: and the residue of them will I deliver to the
sword before their en the LORD.

15:10 Woe is me, my mother, that thou hast borne me a man d a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither lent on
usuryave lent to me on usury; yet every one of them doth
curse me.

15:11 T said, Verily it shall be well with thy remnant; verily
I will cause tentreat thee well in the time of evil and in
the time of affliction.

iron break the northern iron and the steel?  15:13 Thy
substance and t will I give to the spoil without price,
and that for all thy sins, evhy borders.

15:14 And I will make thee to pass with thine enemies intch thou knowest not: for a fire is kindled in mine anger, which
shall ou.

15:15 O LORD, thou knowest: remember me, and visit me, and reveng persecutors; take me not away in thy longsuffering: know that
for thyhave suffered rebuke.

15:16 Thy words were found, and I did eat them;ord was unto
me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart: for I am called b O
LORD God of hosts.

15:17 I sat not in the assembly of the mockers,ed; I sat
alone because of thy hand: for thou hast filled me with indi15:18 Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refusethd? wilt thou be altogether unto me as a liar, and as waters
that fail?efore thus saith the LORD, If thou return, then
will I bring thee agai shalt stand before me: and if thou
take forth the precious from the valt be as my mouth: let
them return unto thee; but return not thou unt5:20 And I will make thee unto this people a fenced brasen wall: and
tl fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against
thee: for I ae to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the
LORD.

15:21 And I will  out of the hand of the wicked, and I
will redeem thee out of the handrible.

16:1 The word of the LORD came also unto me, saying, 16:2 Thoutake thee a wife, neither shalt thou have sons or daughters in
this plor thus saith the LORD concerning the sons and concerning the
daughterorn in this place, and concerning their mothers
that bare them, and coeir fathers that begat them in this
land; 16:4 They shall die of griev they shall not be
lamented; neither shall they be buried; but they shung upon
the face of the earth: and they shall be consumed by the sworamine; and their carcases shall be meat for the fowls of heaven, and
fsts of the earth.

16:5 For thus saith the LORD, Enter not into the horning,
neither go to lament nor bemoan them: for I have taken away my this people, saith the LORD, even lovingkindness and mercies.

16:6 Boat and the small shall die in this land: they shall
not be buried, nei men lament for them, nor cut themselves,
nor make themselves bald for7 Neither shall men tear
themselves for them in mourning, to comfort tthe dead; neither
shall men give them the cup of consolation to drink ather
or for their mother.

16:8 Thou shalt not also go into the houseng, to sit with
them to eat and to drink.

16:9 For thus saith the LOR, the God of Israel; Behold, I
will cause to cease out of this place is, and in your days,
the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness, ththe
bridegroom, and the voice of the bride.

16:10 And it shall come tn thou shalt shew this people all
these words, and they shall say untorefore hath the LORD
pronounced all this great evil against us? or whaniquity? or
what is our sin that we have committed against the LORD ou11 Then shalt thou say unto them, Because your fathers have
forsaken me LORD, and have walked after other gods, and
have served them, and happed them, and have forsaken me, and
have not kept my law; 16:12 And ye worse than your fathers;
for, behold, ye walk every one after the imof his evil
heart, that they may not hearken unto me: 16:13 Therefore t
you out of this land into a land that ye know not, neither ye nor yo; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; where I
will not favour.

16:14 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that more be said, The LORD liveth, that brought up the children of
Israel  land of Egypt; 16:15 But, The LORD liveth, that
brought up the childrl from the land of the north, and from
all the lands whither he had dr and I will bring them again
into their land that I gave unto their fa16 Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the LORD, and they
shalm; and after will I send for many hunters, and they
shall hunt them frmountain, and from every hill, and out of
the holes of the rocks.

16:ne eyes are upon all their ways: they are not hid from my
face, neithe iniquity hid from mine eyes.

16:18 And first I will recompense theirnd their sin double;
because they have defiled my land, they have filleritance
with the carcases of their detestable and abominable things.
ORD, my strength, and my fortress, and my refuge in the day
of afflictentiles shall come unto thee from the ends of the
earth, and shall sayur fathers have inherited lies, vanity,
and things wherein there is no0 Shall a man make gods unto himself, and they are no gods?  16:21
Theore, behold, I will this once cause them to know, I will cause
them to hand and my might; and they shall know that my name
is The LORD.

17:f Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the
point of a diamondaven upon the table of their heart, and
upon the horns of your altars;st their children remember
their altars and their groves by the green n the high hills.

17:3 O my mountain in the field, I will give thy su all thy
treasures to the spoil, and thy high places for sin, throughoborders.

17:4 And thou, even thyself, shalt discontinue from thine he I gave thee; and I will cause thee to serve thine enemies in the
land knowest not: for ye have kindled a fire in mine anger,
which shall bur.

17:5 Thus saith the LORD; Cursed be the man that trusteth in man,  flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the LORD.

17:6 For he ike the heath in the desert, and shall not see
when good cometh; but sit the parched places in the
wilderness, in a salt land and not inhabi Blessed is the man that trusteth in the LORD, and whose hope the
LORDFor he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that
spreadeth ous by the river, and shall not see when heat
cometh, but her leaf shall and shall not be careful in the
year of drought, neither shall cease ing fruit.

17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperatd:
who can know it?  17:10 I the LORD search the heart, I try the rein give every man according to his ways, and according to the
fruit of h

17:11 As the partridge sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not; so heteth riches, and not by right, shall leave them in the midst
of his dahis end shall be a fool.

17:12 A glorious high throne from the beginnplace of our
sanctuary.

17:13 O LORD, the hope of Israel, all that fo shall be
ashamed, and they that depart from me shall be written in thecause they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living waters.

17e, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be
saved: for t praise.

17:15 Behold, they say unto me, Where is the word of the LORcome now.

17:16 As for me, I have not hastened from being a pastor tohee: neither have I desired the woeful day; thou knowest: that which
cmy lips was right before thee.

17:17 Be not a terror unto me: thou arin the day of evil.

17:18 Let them be confounded that persecute me, bme be
confounded: let them be dismayed, but let not me be dismayed: brhem the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.

17:19  the LORD unto me; Go and stand in the gate of the
children of the peoby the kings of Judah come in, and by the
which they go out, and in als of Jerusalem; 17:20 And say
unto them, Hear ye the word of the LORD,of Judah, and all
Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enhese
gates: 17:21 Thus saith the LORD; Take heed to yourselves, and beon the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;
17:22 Nrry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath
day, neither do ye any work, but hallow ye the sabbath day, as I
commanded your fathers.

17:23 But they obeyed not, neither inclined their ear, but made their
neck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction.

17:24 And it shall come to pass, if ye diligently hearken unto me,
saith D, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city
on the sabbath hallow the sabbath day, to do no work therein;
17:25 Then shall there the gates of this city kings and
princes sitting upon the throne of Dng in chariots and on
horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judainhabitants
of Jerusalem: and this city shall remain for ever.

17:26 hall come from the cities of Judah, and from the
places about Jerusalem the land of Benjamin, and from the
plain, and from the mountains, anhe south, bringing burnt
offerings, and sacrifices, and meat offeringsnse, and
bringing sacrifices of praise, unto the house of the LORD.

1if ye will not hearken unto me to hallow the sabbath day,
and not to ben, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalem
on the sabbath day; theindle a fire in the gates thereof,
and it shall devour the palaces of , and it shall not be
quenched.

18:1 The word which came to Jeremiah  LORD, saying, 18:2
Arise, and go down to the potter’s house, and thl cause thee
to hear my words.

18:3 Then I went down to the potter’and, behold, he wrought a
work on the wheels.

18:4 And the vessel thaof clay was marred in the hand of the
potter: so he made it again anotl, as seemed good to the
potter to make it.

18:5 Then the word of thee to me, saying, 18:6 O house of
Israel, cannot I do with you as this ith the LORD. Behold,
as the clay is in the potter’s hand, so are yehand, O house
of Israel.

18:7 At what instant I shall speak concernin, and concerning
a kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and to dest8:8 If
that nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from their ev repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them.

18:9 And at what  I shall speak concerning a nation, and
concerning a kingdom, to buildlant it; 18:10 If it do evil in
my sight, that it obey not my voice, tl repent of the good,
wherewith I said I would benefit them.

18:11 Noe go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to the
inhabitants of Jerusale Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I frame
evil against you, and devise a dst you: return ye now every
one from his evil way, and make your ways oings good.

18:12 And they said, There is no hope: but we will walk awn
devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heartTherefore thus saith the LORD; Ask ye now among the heathen, who
hath  things: the virgin of Israel hath done a very horrible
thing.

18:14 leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from the rock
of the field? or  cold flowing waters that come from another
place be forsaken?  18:15 people hath forgotten me, they
have burned incense to vanity, and theyed them to stumble in
their ways from the ancient paths, to walk in paay not cast
up; 18:16 To make their land desolate, and a perpetual hisy
one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head.

18:scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I
will shew them td not the face, in the day of their
calamity.

18:18 Then said they, Clet us devise devices against Jeremiah;
for the law shall not perish fiest, nor counsel from the
wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, s smite him with
the tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his wo9 Give heed to me, O LORD, and hearken to the voice of them that
conte.

18:20 Shall evil be recompensed for good? for they have digged a pioul. Remember that I stood before thee to speak good for them,
and to ay thy wrath from them.

18:21 Therefore deliver up their children to  and pour out
their blood by the force of the sword; and let their wivved
of their children, and be widows; and let their men be put to deatr young men be slain by the sword in battle.

18:22 Let a cry be heardr houses, when thou shalt bring a
troop suddenly upon them: for they ha pit to take me, and
hid snares for my feet.

18:23 Yet, LORD, thou k their counsel against me to slay me:
forgive not their iniquity, neitut their sin from thy sight,
but let them be overthrown before thee; dwith them in the
time of thine anger.

19:1 Thus saith the LORD, Go antter’s earthen bottle, and
take of the ancients of the people, and oents of the
priests; 19:2 And go forth unto the valley of the son of Hwhich
is by the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words tl tell thee, 19:3 And say, Hear ye the word of the LORD, O kings
of Juhabitants of Jerusalem; Thus saith the LORD of hosts,
the God of Israe I will bring evil upon this place, the
which whosoever heareth, his engle.

19:4 Because they have forsaken me, and have estranged this plave burned incense in it unto other gods, whom neither they nor their
fe known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this place
with the bnocents; 19:5 They have built also the high places
of Baal, to burn thith fire for burnt offerings unto Baal,
which I commanded not, nor spather came it into my mind:
19:6 Therefore, behold, the days come, saitD, that this place
shall no more be called Tophet, nor The valley of tnom,
but The valley of slaughter.

19:7 And I will make void the counsf Judah and Jerusalem in this
place; and I will cause them to fall by before their
enemies, and by the hands of them that seek their lives: carcases will I give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and for
tof the earth.

19:8 And I will make this city desolate, and an hissingne
that passeth thereby shall be astonished and hiss because of all ththereof.

19:9 And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons anh of their daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh of
his fr siege and straitness, wherewith their enemies, and
they that seek theshall straiten them.

19:10 Then shalt thou break the bottle in the sien that go
with thee, 19:11 And shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LOs; Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaketh
a pvessel, that cannot be made whole again: and they shall
bury them in T there be no place to bury.

19:12 Thus will I do unto this place, sai, and to the
inhabitants thereof, and even make this city as Tophet: 1he
houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, shall bes the place of Tophet, because of all the houses upon whose
roofs theyed incense unto all the host of heaven, and have
poured out drink offeother gods.

19:14 Then came Jeremiah from Tophet, whither the LORD hato
prophesy; and he stood in the court of the LORD’s house; and saide people, 19:15 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel;
Beholbring upon this city and upon all her towns all the
evil that I have pgainst it, because they have hardened
their necks, that they might not words.

20:1 Now Pashur the son of Immer the priest, who was also chior in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah prophesied
these thinThen Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks
thate high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of the
LORD.

20:3 Ando pass on the morrow, that Pashur brought forth
Jeremiah out of the st said Jeremiah unto him, The LORD hath
not called thy name Pashur, butabib.

20:4 For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will make thee a terrorlf, and to all thy friends: and they shall fall by the sword of
their nd thine eyes shall behold it: and I will give all
Judah into the handng of Babylon, and he shall carry them
captive into Babylon, and shall with the sword.

20:5 Moreover I will deliver all the strength of thi all
the labours thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and allures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their
enemies,l spoil them, and take them, and carry them to
Babylon.

20:6 And thound all that dwell in thine house shall go into
captivity: and thou sha Babylon, and there thou shalt die,
and shalt be buried there, thou, a friends, to whom thou
hast prophesied lies.

20:7 O LORD, thou hast dme, and I was deceived; thou art
stronger than I, and hast prevailed: rision daily, every one
mocketh me.

20:8 For since I spake, I cried oed violence and spoil;
because the word of the LORD was made a reproac and a
derision, daily.

20:9 Then I said, I will not make mention of eak any more
in his name. But his word was in mine heart as a burning up
in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.r I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side. Report,
say they, l report it. All my familiars watched for my
halting, saying, Peradvenll be enticed, and we shall prevail
against him, and we shall take our him.

20:11 But the LORD is with me as a mighty terrible one: therefoecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail: they shall be
great; for they shall not prosper: their everlasting
confusion shall never n.

20:12 But, O LORD of hosts, that triest the righteous, and seest tnd the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee
have I oause.

20:13 Sing unto the LORD, praise ye the LORD: for he hath delivoul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.

20:14 Cursed be the day ws born: let not the day wherein my
mother bare me be blessed.

20:15 Che man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A
man child is born u; making him very glad.

20:16 And let that man be as the cities whichD overthrew, and
repented not: and let him hear the cry in the morninge
shouting at noontide; 20:17 Because he slew me not from the womb; orother might have been my grave, and her womb to be always
great with mWherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labour and sorrow,
that uld be consumed with shame?  21:1 The word which came
unto Jeremiah frD, when king Zedekiah sent unto him Pashur
the son of Melchiah, and Zee son of Maaseiah the priest,
saying, 21:2 Enquire, I pray thee, of th us; for
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon maketh war against us; if so be LORD will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that
he from us.

21:3 Then said Jeremiah unto them, Thus shall ye say to Zede4
Thus saith the LORD God of Israel; Behold, I will turn back the
weapthat are in your hands, wherewith ye fight against the
king of Babylonnst the Chaldeans, which besiege you without
the walls, and I will assinto the midst of this city.

21:5 And I myself will fight against youtstretched hand and
with a strong arm, even in anger, and in fury, andrath.

21:6 And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man anhey shall die of a great pestilence.

21:7 And afterward, saith the LOll deliver Zedekiah king of
Judah, and his servants, and the people, aare left in this
city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from thinto
the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of ies, and into the hand of those that seek their life: and he shall
smith the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them,
neither have pity, mercy.

21:8 And unto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith the LORD;set before you the way of life, and the way of death.

21:9 He that abhis city shall die by the sword, and by the
famine, and by the pestilee that goeth out, and falleth to
the Chaldeans that besiege you, he shnd his life shall be
unto him for a prey.

21:10 For I have set my facthis city for evil, and not for
good, saith the LORD: it shall be give hand of the king of
Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.

21:11 Ag the house of the king of Judah, say, Hear ye the
word of the LORD; 2se of David, thus saith the LORD; Execute
judgment in the morning, andm that is spoiled out of the
hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go oue, and burn that
none can quench it, because of the evil of your doingBehold, I am against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and rock
of theaith the LORD; which say, Who shall come down against
us? or who shallto our habitations?  21:14 But I will punish
you according to the fruioings, saith the LORD: and I will
kindle a fire in the forest thereof,hall devour all things
round about it.

22:1 Thus saith the LORD; Go d house of the king of Judah,
and speak there this word, 22:2 And say, word of the LORD, O
king of Judah, that sittest upon the throne of Davand thy
servants, and thy people that enter in by these gates: 22:3 Thhe LORD; Execute ye judgment and righteousness, and deliver the
spoilethe hand of the oppressor: and do no wrong, do no
violence to the strafatherless, nor the widow, neither shed
innocent blood in this place.
 if ye do this thing indeed, then shall there enter in by the
gates ofse kings sitting upon the throne of David, riding in
chariots and on h and his servants, and his people.

22:5 But if ye will not hear these swear by myself, saith the
LORD, that this house shall become a desol6 For thus saith the LORD unto the king’s house of Judah; Thou art
G me, and the head of Lebanon: yet surely I will make thee a
wildernesss which are not inhabited.

22:7 And I will prepare destroyers againstery one with his
weapons: and they shall cut down thy choice cedars, athem into
the fire.

22:8 And many nations shall pass by this city, anall say
every man to his neighbour, Wherefore hath the LORD done thus great city?  22:9 Then they shall answer, Because they have
forsaken tnt of the LORD their God, and worshipped other
gods, and served them.
p ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him: but weep sore for
him that : for he shall return no more, nor see his native
country.

22:11 For he LORD touching Shallum the son of Josiah king
of Judah, which reignenstead of Josiah his father, which went forth
out of this place; He shturn thither any more: 22:12 But he
shall die in the place whither the him captive, and shall
see this land no more.

22:13 Woe unto him tha his house by unrighteousness, and his
chambers by wrong; that useth hurs service without wages,
and giveth him not for his work; 22:14 Thatll build me a
wide house and large chambers, and cutteth him out windo is
cieled with cedar, and painted with vermilion.

22:15 Shalt thou rse thou closest thyself in cedar? did not
thy father eat and drink, anent and justice, and then it was
well with him?  22:16 He judged the ce poor and needy; then
it was well with him: was not this to know me?  LORD.

22:17 But thine eyes and thine heart are not but for thy covetd for to shed innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence,
to2:18 Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son of
Jos Judah; They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah my
brother! or, Ah shey shall not lament for him, saying, Ah
lord! or, Ah his glory!  22:1be buried with the burial of
an ass, drawn and cast forth beyond the grusalem.

22:20 Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up thy voice in Ba
cry from the passages: for all thy lovers are destroyed.

22:21 I spaee in thy prosperity; but thou saidst, I will not
hear. This hath been from thy youth, that thou obeyedst not
my voice.

22:22 The wind shalall thy pastors, and thy lovers shall go
into captivity: surely then sbe ashamed and confounded for
all thy wickedness.

22:23 O inhabitant , that makest thy nest in the cedars, how
gracious shalt thou be when  upon thee, the pain as of a
woman in travail!  22:24 As I live, saith though Coniah the
son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon hand, yet
would I pluck thee thence; 22:25 And I will give thee into f
them that seek thy life, and into the hand of them whose face thou
fven into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and
into the handhaldeans.

22:26 And I will cast thee out, and thy mother that bare thanother country, where ye were not born; and there shall ye die.

22:2the land whereunto they desire to return, thither shall
they not returs this man Coniah a despised broken idol? is he a vessel
wherein is nowherefore are they cast out, he and his seed,
and are cast into a landy know not?  22:29 O earth, earth,
earth, hear the word of the LORD.

 saith the LORD, Write ye this man childless, a man that
shall not pro days: for no man of his seed shall prosper,
sitting upon the throne ond ruling any more in Judah.

23:1 Woe be unto the pastors that destrotter the sheep of my
pasture! saith the LORD.

23:2 Therefore thus saiRD God of Israel against the pastors
that feed my people; Ye have scatlock, and driven them away,
and have not visited them: behold, I will  you the evil of
your doings, saith the LORD.

23:3 And I will gather nt of my flock out of all countries
whither I have driven them, and withem again to their folds;
and they shall be fruitful and increase.

2will set up shepherds over them which shall feed them: and
they shall re, nor be dismayed, neither shall they be
lacking, saith the LORD.

2 the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise unto
David a righteous Branch, and a King shall reign and prosper, and
shall execute judgment and justice in the earth.

23:6 In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely:
and this is his name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD OUR
RIGHTEOUSNESS.

23:7 Therefore, behold, the day, saith the LORD, that they shall
no more say, The LORD liveth, which p the children of Israel
out of the land of Egypt; 23:8 But, The LORD ich brought up
and which led the seed of the house of Israel out of thuntry, and from all countries whither I had driven them; and they
shal their own land.

23:9 Mine heart within me is broken because of the pll my
bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine home, because of the LORD, and because of the words of his
holiness.

2he land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the
land mournepleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, and
their course is ev their force is not right.

23:11 For both prophet and priest are profin my house have I
found their wickedness, saith the LORD.

23:12 Wherir way shall be unto them as slippery ways in the
darkness: they shallven on, and fall therein: for I will bring
evil upon them, even the yeir visitation, saith the LORD.

23:13 And I have seen folly in the proamaria; they
prophesied in Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.

ve seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem an horrible thing:
they commery, and walk in lies: they strengthen also the hands
of evildoers, thth return from his wickedness; they are all
of them unto me as Sodom, nhabitants thereof as Gomorrah.

23:15 Therefore thus saith the LORD oncerning the prophets;
Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and makk the water
of gall: for from the prophets of Jerusalem is profanenessh
into all the land.

23:16 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Hearken not ords of the
prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they sion of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the LORD.

23:17 till unto them that despise me, The LORD hath said, Ye
shall have peacy say unto every one that walketh after the
imagination of his own heal shall come upon you.

23:18 For who hath stood in the counsel of the hath
perceived and heard his word? who hath marked his word, and hear9 Behold, a whirlwind of the LORD is gone forth in fury, even a
grievoind: it shall fall grievously upon the head of the
wicked.

23:20 The the LORD shall not return, until he have executed,
and till he have pee thoughts of his heart: in the latter
days ye shall consider it perfe21 I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran: I have not spoken
to hey prophesied.

23:22 But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caeople to
hear my words, then they should have turned them from their end from the evil of their doings.

23:23 Am I a God at hand, saith the not a God afar off?
23:24 Can any hide himself in secret places that  see him?
saith the LORD. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the LO I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my
name, save dreamed, I have dreamed.

23:26 How long shall this be in the hearophets that
prophesy lies? yea, they are prophets of the deceit of thert; 23:27 Which think to cause my people to forget my name by their
dr they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathers
have forgottenfor Baal.

23:28 The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; t
hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff to? saith the LORD.

23:29 Is not my word like as a fire? saith the LORDe a hammer
that breaketh the rock in pieces?  23:30 Therefore, behold,nst the prophets, saith the LORD, that steal my words every one
from hr.

23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets, saith the LORD, that use
ues, and say, He saith.

23:32 Behold, I am against them that prophesyms, saith the
LORD, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by thand
by their lightness; yet I sent them not, nor commanded them: thereshall not profit this people at all, saith the LORD.

23:33 And when t, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask
thee, saying, What is the burLORD? thou shalt then say unto
them, What burden? I will even forsake h the LORD.

23:34 And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the peoshall say, The burden of the LORD, I will even punish that man and his:35 Thus shall ye say every one to his neighbour, and every one to
his What hath the LORD answered? and, What hath the LORD
spoken?  23:36 Aden of the LORD shall ye mention no more:
for every man’s word shallurden; for ye have perverted the
words of the living God, of the LORD our God.

23:37 Thus shalt thou say to the prophet, What hath the LORDthee? and, What hath the LORD spoken?  23:38 But since ye say, The
burhe LORD; therefore thus saith the LORD; Because ye say this
word, The  the LORD, and I have sent unto you, saying, Ye
shall not say, The bur LORD; 23:39 Therefore, behold, I,
even I, will utterly forget you, ansake you, and the city
that I gave you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence:
23:40 And I will bring an everlasting reproach upod a
perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.

24:1 The LORD shewd, behold, two baskets of figs were set
before the temple of the LORD,t Nebuchadrezzar king of
Babylon had carried away captive Jeconiah thehoiakim king of
Judah, and the princes of Judah, with the carpenters a from
Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon.

24:2 One basket hadd figs, even like the figs that are first
ripe: and the other basket hughty figs, which could not be
eaten, they were so bad.

24:3 Then sai unto me, What seest thou, Jeremiah? And I
said, Figs; the good figs,  and the evil, very evil, that
cannot be eaten, they are so evil.

24:he word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 24:5 Thus saith
the LORD, thsrael; Like these good figs, so will I
acknowledge them that are carriptive of Judah, whom I have
sent out of this place into the land of thdeans for their good.

24:6 For I will set mine eyes upon them for gooill bring
them again to this land: and I will build them, and not pull; and I will plant them, and not pluck them up.

24:7 And I will give art to know me, that I am the LORD: and
they shall be my people, and Iheir God: for they shall
return unto me with their whole heart.

24:8  evil figs, which cannot be eaten, they are so evil;
surely thus saith, So will I give Zedekiah the king of Judah,
and his princes, and the Jerusalem, that remain in this
land, and them that dwell in the land o4:9 And I will
deliver them to be removed into all the kingdoms of the
their hurt, to be a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse, in
awhither I shall drive them.

24:10 And I will send the sword, the famie pestilence, among
them, till they be consumed from off the land thatto them
and to their fathers.

25:1 The word that came to Jeremiah conl the people of Judah
in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of JosiaJudah, that
was the first year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; 25:2
Jeremiah the prophet spake unto all the people of Judah, and to all
tants of Jerusalem, saying, 25:3 From the thirteenth year of
Josiah theAmon king of Judah, even unto this day, that is the
three and twentiethe word of the LORD hath come unto me, and
I have spoken unto you, risand speaking; but ye have not
hearkened.

25:4 And the LORD hath sent all his servants the prophets,
rising early and sending them; but ye hrkened, nor inclined
your ear to hear.

25:5 They said, Turn ye again  one from his evil way, and
from the evil of your doings, and dwell inthat the LORD hath
given unto you and to your fathers for ever and eve go not
after other gods to serve them, and to worship them, and provoto anger with the works of your hands; and I will do you no hurt.

25:have not hearkened unto me, saith the LORD; that ye might
provoke me th the works of your hands to your own hurt.

25:8 Therefore thus saithof hosts; Because ye have not heard
my words, 25:9 Behold, I will sendall the families of the
north, saith the LORD, and Nebuchadrezzar the bylon, my
servant, and will bring them against this land, and against ants thereof, and against all these nations round about, and
will uttey them, and make them an astonishment, and an
hissing, and perpetual d.

25:10 Moreover I will take from them the voice of mirth, and the voadness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride,
the she millstones, and the light of the candle.

25:11 And this whole landa desolation, and an astonishment;
and these nations shall serve the kylon seventy years.

25:12 And it shall come to pass, when seventy yeaomplished,
that I will punish the king of Babylon, and that nation, saLORD, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans, and will makeual desolations.

25:13 And I will bring upon that land all my words we
pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which
hath prophesied against all the nations.

25:14 For many nations and gshall serve themselves of them
also: and I will recompense them accordir deeds, and
according to the works of their own hands.

25:15 For thh the LORD God of Israel unto me; Take the wine cup
of this fury at myd cause all the nations, to whom I send
thee, to drink it.

25:16 And  drink, and be moved, and be mad, because of the
sword that I will senhem.

25:17 Then took I the cup at the LORD’s hand, and made all the drink, unto whom the LORD had sent me: 25:18 To wit, Jerusalem, and
tof Judah, and the kings thereof, and the princes thereof,
to make themtion, an astonishment, an hissing, and a curse;
as it is this day; 25:h king of Egypt, and his servants, and
his princes, and all his people all the mingled people, and
all the kings of the land of Uz, and all f the land of the
Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Azzah, and Ekron, andnt of
Ashdod, 25:21 Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon, 25:22 Ae kings of Tyrus, and all the kings of Zidon, and the kings of the
islre beyond the sea, 25:23 Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and
all that are int corners, 25:24 And all the kings of Arabia,
and all the kings of theople that dwell in the desert,
25:25 And all the kings of Zimri, and angs of Elam, and all
the kings of the Medes, 25:26 And all the kings o, far and
near, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the world, wpon the face of the earth: and the king of Sheshach shall drink after
7 Therefore thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of
hosts, thsrael; Drink ye, and be drunken, and spue, and
fall, and rise no more,f the sword which I will send among
you.

25:28 And it shall be, if thto take the cup at thine hand to
drink, then shalt thou say unto them,h the LORD of hosts; Ye
shall certainly drink.

25:29 For, lo, I beginevil on the city which is called by my
name, and should ye be utterly hed? Ye shall not be unpunished:
for I will call for a sword upon all ants of the earth,
saith the LORD of hosts.

25:30 Therefore prophesy st them all these words, and say
unto them, The LORD shall roar from od utter his voice from
his holy habitation; he shall mightily roar upotation; he
shall give a shout, as they that tread the grapes, against habitants of the earth.

25:31 A noise shall come even to the ends of  for the LORD
hath a controversy with the nations, he will plead with he
will give them that are wicked to the sword, saith the LORD.

25:32h the LORD of hosts, Behold, evil shall go forth from
nation to nationeat whirlwind shall be raised up from the
coasts of the earth.

25:33 ain of the LORD shall be at that day from one end of
the earth even uner end of the earth: they shall not be
lamented, neither gathered, norhey shall be dung upon the
ground.

25:34 Howl, ye shepherds, and cry;w yourselves in the ashes,
ye principal of the flock: for the days of hter and of your
dispersions are accomplished; and ye shall fall like vessel.

25:35 And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the pr the flock to escape.

25:36 A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and ng of the
principal of the flock, shall be heard: for the LORD hath sp pasture.

25:37 And the peaceable habitations are cut down because ofe
anger of the LORD.

25:38 He hath forsaken his covert, as the lion: land is
desolate because of the fierceness of the oppressor, and becauis fierce anger.

26:1 In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the iah king
of Judah came this word from the LORD, saying, 26:2 Thus sait; Stand in the court of the LORD’s house, and speak unto all the
cith, which come to worship in the LORD’s house, all the
words that I ce to speak unto them; diminish not a word:
26:3 If so be they will heaturn every man from his evil way,
that I may repent me of the evil, whse to do unto them
because of the evil of their doings.

26:4 And thou unto them, Thus saith the LORD; If ye will not
hearken to me, to walk, which I have set before you, 26:5 To
hearken to the words of my servrophets, whom I sent unto
you, both rising up early, and sending them,ve not
hearkened; 26:6 Then will I make this house like Shiloh, and wis city a curse to all the nations of the earth.

26:7 So the priests aphets and all the people heard Jeremiah
speaking these words in the hoORD.

26:8 Now it came to pass, when Jeremiah had made an end of speakll that the LORD had commanded him to speak unto all the people, that
s and the prophets and all the people took him, saying, Thou
shalt sur
26:9 Why hast thou prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, This
hl be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without an
inhabitanll the people were gathered against Jeremiah in the
house of the LORD.n the princes of Judah heard these things, then they came up
from the ouse unto the house of the LORD, and sat down in the
entry of the new e LORD’s house.

26:11 Then spake the priests and the prophets unto s and to
all the people, saying, This man is worthy to die; for he hated against this city, as ye have heard with your ears.

26:12 Then spah unto all the princes and to all the people,
saying, The LORD sent mesy against this house and against
this city all the words that ye have26:13 Therefore now amend your ways and your doings, and obey the
voicRD your God; and the LORD will repent him of the evil
that he hath proainst you.

26:14 As for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as od
and meet unto you.

26:15 But know ye for certain, that if ye put m, ye shall
surely bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this upon the inhabitants thereof: for of a truth the LORD hath sent me
untto speak all these words in your ears.

26:16 Then said the princes anpeople unto the priests and to
the prophets; This man is not worthy to he hath spoken to us
in the name of the LORD our God.

26:17 Then rosin of the elders of the land, and spake to all
the assembly of the peog, 26:18 Micah the Morasthite
prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king and spake to all the
people of Judah, saying, Thus saith the LORD of h shall be
plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and t of the house as the high places of a forest.

26:19 Did Hezekiah kingand all Judah put him at all to
death?  did he not fear the LORD, and he LORD, and the LORD
repented him of the evil which he had pronouncedhem? Thus
might we procure great evil against our souls.

26:20 And thso a man that prophesied in the name of the
LORD, Urijah the son of ShKirjathjearim, who prophesied
against this city and against this land to all the words of
Jeremiah.

26:21 And when Jehoiakim the king, withghty men, and all
the princes, heard his words, the king sought to putth: but
when Urijah heard it, he was afraid, and fled, and went into E2 And Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt, namely, Elnathan the
sonr, and certain men with him into Egypt.

26:23 And they fetched forth of Egypt, and brought him unto
Jehoiakim the king; who slew him with t, and cast his dead
body into the graves of the common people.

26:24 ss the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with
Jeremiah, that they give him into the hand of the people to
put him to death.

27:1 In theof the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king
of Judah came this womiah from the LORD, saying, 27:2 Thus
saith the LORD to me; Make thee bonds and yokes, and put them upon thy
neck, 27:3 And send them to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab,
and to the king of the Ammonites, and to the king of Tyrus, and to the
king of Zidon, by the hand of the messengers which come to Jerusalem
unto Zedekiah king of Judah; 2ommand them to say unto their
masters, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, tIsrael; Thus shall
ye say unto your masters; 27:5 I have made the eart and the
beast that are upon the ground, by my great power and by my
od arm, and have given it unto whom it seemed meet unto me.

27:6 And n given all these lands into the hand of
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babrvant; and the beasts of the
field have I given him also to serve him.d all nations shall serve him, and his son, and his son’s son,
untiltime of his land come: and then many nations and great
kings shall serves of him.

27:8 And it shall come to pass, that the nation and kingdll
not serve the same Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, and that wiltheir neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nation
will I pth the LORD, with the sword, and with the famine,
and with the pestileI have consumed them by his hand.

27:9 Therefore hearken not ye to yophets, nor to your diviners,
nor to your dreamers, nor to your enchantto your sorcerers,
which speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve thBabylon:
27:10 For they prophesy a lie unto you, to remove you far frond; and that I should drive you out, and ye should perish.

27:11 But s that bring their neck under the yoke of the king
of Babylon, and serhose will I let remain still in their own
land, saith the LORD; and thill it, and dwell therein.

27:12 I spake also to Zedekiah king of Juding to all these
words, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of theabylon,
and serve him and his people, and live.

27:13 Why will ye die thy people, by the sword, by the
famine, and by the pestilence, as th spoken against the
nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?  2efore
hearken not unto the words of the prophets that speak unto you,
e shall not serve the king of Babylon: for they prophesy a
lie unto yoFor I have not sent them, saith the LORD, yet they prophesy a
lie in mat I might drive you out, and that ye might perish,
ye, and the propheophesy unto you.

27:16 Also I spake to the priests and to all this peng, Thus
saith the LORD; Hearken not to the words of your prophets tha unto you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the LORD’s house
shall nowe brought again from Babylon: for they prophesy a
lie unto you.

27:17ot unto them; serve the king of Babylon, and live:
wherefore should th laid waste?  27:18 But if they be
prophets, and if the word of the LO them, let them now make
intercession to the LORD of hosts, that the vch are left in
the house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of  at
Jerusalem, go not to Babylon.

27:19 For thus saith the LORD of hoing the pillars, and
concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, andg the
residue of the vessels that remain in this city.

27:20 Which Near king of Babylon took not, when he carried
away captive Jeconiah theehoiakim king of Judah from
Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles ond Jerusalem; 27:21
Yea, thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israning the
vessels that remain in the house of the LORD, and in the house
king of Judah and of Jerusalem; 27:22 They shall be carried to
Babylere shall they be until the day that I visit them,
saith the LORD; thering them up, and restore them to this
place.

28:1 And it came to pas year, in the beginning of the reign
of Zedekiah king of Judah, in thear, and in the fifth month,
that Hananiah the son of Azur the prophet, of Gibeon, spake
unto me in the house of the LORD, in the presence ofts and
of all the people, saying, 28:2 Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.

28two full years will I bring again into this place all the
vessels of ts house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took
away from this placeed them to Babylon: 28:4 And I will
bring again to this place Jeconiahof Jehoiakim king of Judah,
with all the captives of Judah, that went n, saith the
LORD: for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.

the prophet Jeremiah said unto the prophet Hananiah in the
presence ofsts, and in the presence of all the people that
stood in the house of  28:6 Even the prophet Jeremiah said,
Amen: the LORD do so: the LORD py words which thou hast
prophesied, to bring again the vessels of the ouse, and all
that is carried away captive, from Babylon into this plaNevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears,
and is of all the people; 28:8 The prophets that have been
before me and be of old prophesied both against many
countries, and against great kingar, and of evil, and of
pestilence.

28:9 The prophet which prophesiet, when the word of the
prophet shall come to pass, then shall the propown, that the
LORD hath truly sent him.

28:10 Then Hananiah the prophe yoke from off the prophet
Jeremiah’s neck, and brake it.

28:11 Anh spake in the presence of all the people, saying,
Thus saith the LORDwill I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon from the neck  within the space of two
full years. And the prophet Jeremiah went hisay.

28:12 Then the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the prophet, aHananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from off the neck of the
propah, saying, 28:13 Go and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus
saith the LORD; Tt broken the yokes of wood; but thou shalt
make for them yokes of ironFor thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; I have put
a yokepon the neck of all these nations, that they may serve
Nebuchadnezzar bylon; and they shall serve him: and I have
given him the beasts of tho.

28:15 Then said the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Henaniah; The LORD hath not sent thee; but thou makest this
people to trlie.

28:16 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will cast thee frface of the earth: this year thou shalt die, because thou hast
taught against the LORD.

28:17 So Hananiah the prophet died the same year innth month.

29:1 Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah t
sent from Jerusalem unto the residue of the elders which were carriedtives, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all the
people hadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to
Babylon; 29:2 (Afeconiah the king, and the queen, and the
eunuchs, the princes of Judahalem, and the carpenters, and
the smiths, were departed from Jerusalemy the hand of Elasah
the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of HilkiZedekiah
king of Judah sent unto Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babing, 29:4 Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, unto all
thrried away captives, whom I have caused to be carried away
from JerusaBabylon; 29:5 Build ye houses, and dwell in them;
and plant gardens, a fruit of them; 29:6 Take ye wives, and
beget sons and daughters; and s for your sons, and give your
daughters to husbands, that they may bed daughters; that ye
may be increased there, and not diminished.

29:7the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be
carried away cap pray unto the LORD for it: for in the peace
thereof shall ye have peaor thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Let not your
prophur diviners, that be in the midst of you, deceive you,
neither hearkenreams which ye cause to be dreamed.

29:9 For they prophesy falsely unmy name: I have not sent
them, saith the LORD.

29:10 For thus saith tat after seventy years be
accomplished at Babylon I will visit you, anmy good word
toward you, in causing you to return to this place.

29:1ow the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD,
thoughts of pnot of evil, to give you an expected end.

29:12 Then shall ye call upye shall go and pray unto me,
and I will hearken unto you.

29:13 And ek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me
with all your heart.

d I will be found of you, saith the LORD: and I will turn away
your cad I will gather you from all the nations, and from
all the places whitdriven you, saith the LORD; and I will
bring you again into the place used you to be carried away
captive.

29:15 Because ye have said, The raised us up prophets in
Babylon; 29:16 Know that thus saith the LORD ng that sitteth
upon the throne of David, and of all the people that dthis
city, and of your brethren that are not gone forth with you into
 29:17 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will send
upon them the famine, and the pestilence, and will make
them like vile figs, that caten, they are so evil.

29:18 And I will persecute them with the swore famine, and
with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be removede
kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, and an astonishment, and an
hi a reproach, among all the nations whither I have driven
them: 29:19 Bey have not hearkened to my words, saith the
LORD, which I sent unto tervants the prophets, rising up
early and sending them; but ye would naith the LORD.

29:20 Hear ye therefore the word of the LORD, all ye ovity,
whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon: 29:21 Thus saith the hosts, the God of Israel, of Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and of
Zedekiahf Maaseiah, which prophesy a lie unto you in my
name; Behold, I will dm into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king
of Babylon; and he shall slay tre your eyes; 29:22 And of them
shall be taken up a curse by all the cy of Judah which are in
Babylon, saying, The LORD make thee like Zedekke Ahab, whom
the king of Babylon roasted in the fire; 29:23 Because tommitted villany in Israel, and have committed adultery with their
neiwives, and have spoken lying words in my name, which I
have not commaneven I know, and am a witness, saith the
LORD.

29:24 Thus shalt thou  to Shemaiah the Nehelamite, saying,
29:25 Thus speaketh the LORD of hod of Israel, saying,
Because thou hast sent letters in thy name unto ople that
are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the pto all the priests, saying, 29:26 The LORD hath made thee priest in
th Jehoiada the priest, that ye should be officers in the
house of the Lvery man that is mad, and maketh himself a
prophet, that thou shouldesin prison, and in the stocks.

29:27 Now therefore why hast thou not remiah of Anathoth,
which maketh himself a prophet to you?  29:28 For t he sent
unto us in Babylon, saying, This captivity is long: build ye  dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them.

29:29 Aah the priest read this letter in the ears of
Jeremiah the prophet.

2 came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying, 29:31 Send
to all thcaptivity, saying, Thus saith the LORD concerning
Shemaiah the Nehelame that Shemaiah hath prophesied unto
you, and I sent him not, and he co trust in a lie: 29:32
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will maiah the
Nehelamite, and his seed: he shall not have a man to dwell aeople; neither shall he behold the good that I will do for my people,
LORD; because he hath taught rebellion against the LORD.

30:1 The wore to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying, 30:2 Thus
speaketh the LORD God osaying, Write thee all the words that
I have spoken unto thee in a booor, lo, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will bring again
the capmy people Israel and Judah, saith the LORD: and I
will cause them to rhe land that I gave to their fathers,
and they shall possess it.

30:4are the words that the LORD spake concerning Israel and
concerning JudFor thus saith the LORD; We have heard a voice of trembling, of
fear,  of peace.

30:6 Ask ye now, and see whether a man doth travail with cfore do I see every man with his hands on his loins, as a woman
in traall faces are turned into paleness?  30:7 Alas! for
that day is great,ne is like it: it is even the time of
Jacob’s trouble, but he shall ut of it.

30:8 For it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD that I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and will burst thy
bondsngers shall no more serve themselves of him: 30:9 But
they shall servetheir God, and David their king, whom I will
raise up unto them.

30:1 fear thou not, O my servant Jacob, saith the LORD;
neither be dismayel: for, lo, I will save thee from afar,
and thy seed from the land of vity; and Jacob shall return,
and shall be in rest, and be quiet, and make him afraid.

30:11 For I am with thee, saith the LORD, to save th I make
a full end of all nations whither I have scattered thee, yet Imake a full end of thee: but I will correct thee in measure, and
will hee altogether unpunished.

30:12 For thus saith the LORD, Thy bruise e, and thy wound
is grievous.

30:13 There is none to plead thy cause, mayest be bound up:
thou hast no healing medicines.

30:14 All thy lo forgotten thee; they seek thee not; for I
have wounded thee with the n enemy, with the chastisement of
a cruel one, for the multitude of thty; because thy sins
were increased.

30:15 Why criest thou for thine  thy sorrow is incurable
for the multitude of thine iniquity: because re increased,
I have done these things unto thee.

30:16 Therefore all devour thee shall be devoured; and all
thine adversaries, every one oall go into captivity; and
they that spoil thee shall be a spoil, and ey upon thee
will I give for a prey.

30:17 For I will restore health  and I will heal thee of thy
wounds, saith the LORD; because they call Outcast, saying,
This is Zion, whom no man seeketh after.

30:18 ThusRD; Behold, I will bring again the captivity of
Jacob’s tents, and h mercy on his dwellingplaces; and the city
shall be builded upon her od the palace shall remain after
the manner thereof.

30:19 And out of l proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them
that make merry: and I wi them, and they shall not be few;
I will also glorify them, and they se small.

30:20 Their children also shall be as aforetime, and their
cn shall be established before me, and I will punish all
that oppress t21 And their nobles shall be of themselves, and their governor
shall pm the midst of them; and I will cause him to draw
near, and he shall ato me: for who is this that engaged his
heart to approach unto me? saiORD.

30:22 And ye shall be my people, and I will be your God.

30:23 e whirlwind of the LORD goeth forth with fury, a
continuing whirlwind:fall with pain upon the head of the
wicked.

30:24 The fierce anger of shall not return, until he hath
done it, and until he have performed s of his heart: in the
latter days ye shall consider it.

31:1 At the  saith the LORD, will I be the God of all the
families of Israel, and l be my people.

31:2 Thus saith the LORD, The people which were left rd
found grace in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause hi

31:3 The LORD hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loveth an everlasting love: therefore with lovingkindness have I
drawn theAgain I will build thee, and thou shalt be built, O virgin of
Israel:  again be adorned with thy tabrets, and shalt go
forth in the dances ot make merry.

31:5 Thou shalt yet plant vines upon the mountains of Se
planters shall plant, and shall eat them as common things.

31:6 Forhall be a day, that the watchmen upon the mount
Ephraim shall cry, Ari let us go up to Zion unto the LORD
our God.

31:7 For thus saith the  with gladness for Jacob, and shout
among the chief of the nations: pu praise ye, and say, O
LORD, save thy people, the remnant of Israel.

, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them
from the che earth, and with them the blind and the lame,
the woman with child at travaileth with child together: a
great company shall return thithery shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead
them: I  them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight
way, wherein they stumble: for I am a father to Israel, and
Ephraim is my firstborn.

31e word of the LORD, O ye nations, and declare it in the
isles afar offHe that scattered Israel will gather him, and
keep him, as a shepherd lock.

31:11 For the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him from t him that was stronger than he.

31:12 Therefore they shall come and sheight of Zion, and
shall flow together to the goodness of the LORD, fand for
wine, and for oil, and for the young of the flock and of the heir soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not sorrow any
ml.

31:13 Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, both young men ather: for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will
comfort them, nd make them rejoice from their sorrow.

31:14 And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my
people shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith the LORD.

31:15 Thus saith the LORD; A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation,
and bitter weeping; Rahel weeping for he refused to be
comforted for her children, because they were not.

31:th the LORD; Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine
eyes from tears work shall be rewarded, saith the LORD; and
they shall come again fro of the enemy.

31:17 And there is hope in thine end, saith the LORD, hildren shall come again to their own border.

31:18 I have surely heabemoaning himself thus; Thou hast
chastised me, and I was chastised, ak unaccustomed to the
yoke: turn thou me, and I shall be turned; for the LORD my
God.

31:19 Surely after that I was turned, I repented; andt I was
instructed, I smote upon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea, even
coecause I did bear the reproach of my youth.

31:20 Is Ephraim my dear  a pleasant child? for since I
spake against him, I do earnestly rememtill: therefore my
bowels are troubled for him; I will surely have mer saith
the LORD.

31:21 Set thee up waymarks, make thee high heaps: seine heart
toward the highway, even the way which thou wentest: turn aggin of Israel, turn again to these thy cities.

31:22 How long wilt thbout, O thou backsliding daughter? for
the LORD hath created a new thiearth, A woman shall compass
a man.

31:23 Thus saith the LORD of host of Israel; As yet they
shall use this speech in the land of Judah andties thereof,
when I shall bring again their captivity; The LORD blessabitation of justice, and mountain of holiness.

31:24 And there shallJudah itself, and in all the cities
thereof together, husbandmen, and  go forth with flocks.

31:25 For I have satiated the weary soul, and enished every
sorrowful soul.

31:26 Upon this I awaked, and beheld; ap was sweet unto me.

31:27 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, thaow the house
of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, anseed of beast.

31:28 And it shall come to pass, that like as I have w
them, to pluck up, and to break down, and to throw down, and to
destro afflict; so will I watch over them, to build, and to
plant, saith th1:29 In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten a
sond the children’s teeth are set on edge.

31:30 But every one shall is own iniquity: every man that
eateth the sour grape, his teeth shalledge.

31:31 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will make aant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah: 31:32
Not a the covenant that I made with their fathers in the
day that I took thhand to bring them out of the land of
Egypt; which my covenant they brgh I was an husband unto
them, saith the LORD: 31:33 But this shall beant that I will
make with the house of Israel; After those days, saith I
will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their heartsbe their God, and they shall be my people.

31:34 And they shall teachery man his neighbour, and every
man his brother, saying, Know the LORy shall all know me,
from the least of them unto the greatest of them,e LORD: for
I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their s.

31:35 Thus saith the LORD, which giveth the sun for a light by day,dinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night,
which divia when the waves thereof roar; The LORD of hosts
is his name: 31:36 Ifinances depart from before me, saith
the LORD, then the seed of Israel cease from being a nation
before me for ever.

31:37 Thus saith the Lheaven above can be measured, and the
foundations of the earth searcheth, I will also cast off
all the seed of Israel for all that they haveith the LORD.

31:38 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the cbe
built to the LORD from the tower of Hananeel unto the gate of the
c1:39 And the measuring line shall yet go forth over against it upon
theb, and shall compass about to Goath.

31:40 And the whole valley of todies, and of the ashes, and
all the fields unto the brook of Kidron, orner of the horse
gate toward the east, shall be holy unto the LORD; not be
plucked up, nor thrown down any more for ever.

32:1 The word to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year of
Zedekiah king of Judah, the eighteenth year of
Nebuchadrezzar.

32:2 For then the king of Babyrmy besieged Jerusalem: and
Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the coprison, which was
in the king of Judah’s house.

32:3 For Zedekiah kah had shut him up, saying, Wherefore
dost thou prophesy, and say, Thu LORD, Behold, I will give
this city into the hand of the king of Babye shall take it;
32:4 And Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out nd of
the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of th Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes
shall s eyes; 32:5 And he shall lead Zedekiah to Babylon, and
there shall hel I visit him, saith the LORD: though ye fight
with the Chaldeans, ye prosper.

32:6 And Jeremiah said, The word of the LORD came unto me, s Behold, Hanameel the son of Shallum thine uncle shall come unto
thee y thee my field that is in Anathoth: for the right of
redemption is th

32:8 So Hanameel mine uncle’s son came to me in the court of the
pson according to the word of the LORD, and said unto me, Buy my
field,ee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the country of
Benjamin: for the nheritance is thine, and the redemption is
thine; buy it for thyself.
ew that this was the word of the LORD.

32:9 And I bought the field ofy uncle’s son, that was in
Anathoth, and weighed him the money, even shekels of silver.

32:10 And I subscribed the evidence, and sealed i
witnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.

32:11 So I toonce of the purchase, both that which was
sealed according to the law a and that which was open: 32:12
And I gave the evidence of the purchasch the son of Neriah,
the son of Maaseiah, in the sight of Hanameel mis son, and in
the presence of the witnesses that subscribed the bookchase, before all the Jews that sat in the court of the prison.

32:13ged Baruch before them, saying, 32:14 Thus saith the
LORD of hosts, thael; Take these evidences, this evidence
of the purchase, both which ind this evidence which is
open; and put them in an earthen vessel, thacontinue many
days.

32:15 For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God oHouses and
fields and vineyards shall be possessed again in this land.w when I had delivered the evidence of the purchase unto
Baruch the so, I prayed unto the LORD, saying, 32:17 Ah
Lord GOD! behold, thou hasteaven and the earth by thy great
power and stretched out arm, and therg too hard for thee:
32:18 Thou shewest lovingkindness unto thousands,pensest the
iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children a
the Great, the Mighty God, the LORD of hosts, is his name, 32:19 Greal, and mighty in work: for thine eyes are open upon all the
ways of thmen: to give every one according to his ways, and
according to the frudoings: 32:20 Which hast set signs and
wonders in the land of Egypt, eis day, and in Israel, and
among other men; and hast made thee a name,s day; 32:21 And
hast brought forth thy people Israel out of the land with
signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with a stretm, and with great terror; 32:22 And hast given them this land,
which tswear to their fathers to give them, a land flowing
with milk and honed they came in, and possessed it; but
they obeyed not thy voice, neith thy law; they have done
nothing of all that thou commandedst them to ore thou hast
caused all this evil to come upon them: 32:24 Behold thehey
are come unto the city to take it; and the city is given into the e Chaldeans, that fight against it, because of the sword, and of
the f of the pestilence: and what thou hast spoken is come
to pass; and, be seest it.

32:25 And thou hast said unto me, O Lord GOD, Buy thee the
money, and take witnesses; for the city is given into the hand of the.

32:26 Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying, 32:27
Bm the LORD, the God of all flesh: is there any thing too
hard for me? efore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give
this city into the handaldeans, and into the hand of
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he s: 32:29 And the
Chaldeans, that fight against this city, shall come an on
this city, and burn it with the houses, upon whose roofs they haveincense unto Baal, and poured out drink offerings unto other
gods, to e to anger.

32:30 For the children of Israel and the children of Juday
done evil before me from their youth: for the children of Israel havoked me to anger with the work of their hands, saith the
LORD.

32:31 ty hath been to me as a provocation of mine anger and
of my fury from at they built it even unto this day; that I
should remove it from befo 32:32 Because of all the evil of
the children of Israel and of the chudah, which they have
done to provoke me to anger, they, their kings, es, their
priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the iof Jerusalem.

32:33 And they have turned unto me the back, and not though
I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have ned to receive instruction.

32:34 But they set their abominations in thich is called by
my name, to defile it.

32:35 And they built the higBaal, which are in the valley
of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sontheir daughters to pass
through the fire unto Molech; which I commande neither came
it into my mind, that they should do this abomination, th
to sin.

32:36 And now therefore thus saith the LORD, the God of Isrcerning this city, whereof ye say, It shall be delivered into the
handg of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by
the pestilence; 3d, I will gather them out of all countries,
whither I have driven themnger, and in my fury, and in great
wrath; and I will bring them again lace, and I will cause
them to dwell safely: 32:38 And they shall be mand I will be
their God: 32:39 And I will give them one heart, and onethey may fear me for ever, for the good of them, and of their children: 32:40 And I will make an everlasting covenant with them,
that I willaway from them, to do them good; but I will put
my fear in their heartey shall not depart from me.

32:41 Yea, I will rejoice over them to dd, and I will plant
them in this land assuredly with my whole heart anhole
soul.

32:42 For thus saith the LORD; Like as I have brought all 
evil upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the good that I
sed them.

32:43 And fields shall be bought in this land, whereof ye sdesolate without man or beast; it is given into the hand of the
Chalde4 Men shall buy fields for money, and subscribe evidences, and
seal thke witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and in the
places about Jerusale the cities of Judah, and in the cities
of the mountains, and in the che valley, and in the cities
of the south: for I will cause their captturn, saith the
LORD.

33:1 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto Je second time,
while he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, sayhus
saith the LORD the maker thereof, the LORD that formed it, to
estathe LORD is his name; 33:3 Call unto me, and I will
answer thee, and seat and mighty things, which thou knowest
not.

33:4 For thus saith the God of Israel, concerning the houses
of this city, and concerning th the kings of Judah, which
are thrown down by the mounts, and by the s They come to
fight with the Chaldeans, but it is to fill them with thes
of men, whom I have slain in mine anger and in my fury, and for alledness I have hid my face from this city.

33:6 Behold, I will bring id cure, and I will cure them,
and will reveal unto them the abundance nd truth.

33:7 And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivael to return, and will build them, as at the first.

33:8 And I will hem from all their iniquity, whereby they
have sinned against me; and on all their iniquities,
whereby they have sinned, and whereby they hagressed against
me.

33:9 And it shall be to me a name of joy, a prais honour
before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the  do unto them: and they shall fear and tremble for all the
goodness anhe prosperity that I procure unto it.

33:10 Thus saith the LORD; Agaiall be heard in this place,
which ye say shall be desolate without manut beast, even in
the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem
desolate, without man, and without inhabitant, and without beast,
33:ce of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the
bridegroom, andof the bride, the voice of them that shall
say, Praise the LORD of hose LORD is good; for his mercy
endureth for ever: and of them that shal sacrifice of
praise into the house of the LORD. For I will cause to raptivity of the land, as at the first, saith the LORD.

33:12 Thus sai of hosts; Again in this place, which is
desolate without man and with and in all the cities thereof,
shall be an habitation of shepherds ca flocks to lie down.

33:13 In the cities of the mountains, in the citvale, and
in the cities of the south, and in the land of Benjamin, andces about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flocks
passnder the hands of him that telleth them, saith the LORD.

33:14 Beholdcome, saith the LORD, that I will perform that
good thing which I haveunto the house of Israel and to the
house of Judah.

33:15 In those dathat time, will I cause the Branch of
righteousness to grow up unto Da he shall execute judgment and
righteousness in the land.

33:16 In thshall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell
safely: and this is thewith she shall be called, The LORD
our righteousness.

33:17 For thus LORD; David shall never want a man to sit
upon the throne of the hous; 33:18 Neither shall the
priests the Levites want a man before me to t offerings, and
to kindle meat offerings, and to do sacrifice continu9 And the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, saying, 33:20 Thus
sait If ye can break my covenant of the day, and my
covenant of the night,here should not be day and night in
their season; 33:21 Then may also t be broken with David my
servant, that he should not have a son to res throne; and
with the Levites the priests, my ministers.

33:22 As theaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of
the sea measured: so willy the seed of David my servant, and
the Levites that minister unto me Moreover the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying, 33:24
Considenot what this people have spoken, saying, The two
families which the Lhosen, he hath even cast them off? thus
they have despised my people, hould be no more a nation
before them.

33:25 Thus saith the LORD; If t be not with day and night,
and if I have not appointed the ordinancen and earth; 33:26
Then will I cast away the seed of Jacob and David m so that
I will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed ofsaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and have
hem.

34:1 The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, when
Nebucking of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms
of the earth onion, and all the people, fought against
Jerusalem, and against all thereof, saying, 34:2 Thus saith
the LORD, the God of Israel; Go and spekiah king of Judah,
and tell him, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will city into
the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fAnd thou shalt not escape out of his hand, but shalt surely be taken,
red into his hand; and thine eyes shall behold the eyes of
the king ofnd he shall speak with thee mouth to mouth, and
thou shalt go to BabylYet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah; Thus
saith thf thee, Thou shalt not die by the sword: 34:5 But thou
shalt die in peth the burnings of thy fathers, the former
kings which were before thel they burn odours for thee; and
they will lament thee, saying, Ah lorve pronounced the
word, saith the LORD.

34:6 Then Jeremiah the prophel these words unto Zedekiah
king of Judah in Jerusalem, 34:7 When the ylon’s army
fought against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of were left, against Lachish, and against Azekah: for these defenced
citd of the cities of Judah.

34:8 This is the word that came unto Jeremi LORD, after
that the king Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the p
were at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty unto them; 34:9 That every manis manservant, and every man his maidservant, being an
Hebrew or an Heo free; that none should serve himself of
them, to wit, of a Jew his brother.

34:10 Now when all the princes, and all the people, which had entered
into the covenant, heard that every one should let his manservant, and
every one his maidservant, go free, that none should serve themselves
of them any more, then they obeyed, and let them go.

34:11 ard they turned, and caused the servants and the
handmaids, whom they go free, to return, and brought them into
subjection for servants and ids.

34:12 Therefore the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the Lg, 34:13 Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; I made a
covenant withers in the day that I brought them forth out of
the land of Egypt, ouhouse of bondmen, saying, 34:14 At the
end of seven years let ye go ev brother an Hebrew, which
hath been sold unto thee; and when he hath ssix years, thou
shalt let him go free from thee: but your fathers hearnto
me, neither inclined their ear.

34:15 And ye were now turned, andright in my sight, in
proclaiming liberty every man to his neighbour; made a
covenant before me in the house which is called by my name: 34:ed and polluted my name, and caused every man his servant, and
every mis handmaid, whom ye had set at liberty at their pleasure,
to return, t them into subjection, to be unto you for
servants and for handmaids.herefore thus saith the LORD; Ye have not hearkened unto me, in
proclarty, every one to his brother, and every man to his
neighbour: behold,im a liberty for you, saith the LORD, to
the sword, to the pestilence,e famine; and I will make you
to be removed into all the kingdoms of t

34:18 And I will give the men that have transgressed my covenant,
whe not performed the words of the covenant which they had made
before mhey cut the calf in twain, and passed between the
parts thereof, 34:19ces of Judah, and the princes of
Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priesll the people of the
land, which passed between the parts of the calf;ill even
give them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand ot seek their life: and their dead bodies shall be for meat unto the
foheaven, and to the beasts of the earth.

34:21 And Zedekiah king of Juis princes will I give into the
hand of their enemies, and into the ha that seek their life,
and into the hand of the king of Babylon’s ar are gone up
from you.

34:22 Behold, I will command, saith the LORD, them to return
to this city; and they shall fight against it, and take burn
it with fire: and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation wnhabitant.

35:1 The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD in thJehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, saying, 35:2 Go unto the
ho Rechabites, and speak unto them, and bring them into the
house of theto one of the chambers, and give them wine to
drink.

35:3 Then I tookh the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habaziniah,
and his brethren, and alsons, and the whole house of the
Rechabites; 35:4 And I brought them iouse of the LORD, into
the chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Ig man of God,
which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above 
of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the door: 35:5 And I sehe sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine, and
cups, annto them, Drink ye wine.

35:6 But they said, We will drink no wine: f the son of
Rechab our father commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no her ye, nor your sons for ever: 35:7 Neither shall ye build house,
nor nor plant vineyard, nor have any: but all your days ye
shall dwell inhat ye may live many days in the land where ye
be strangers.

35:8 Thuobeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab our
father in all that hrged us, to drink no wine all our days,
we, our wives, our sons, nor ors; 35:9 Nor to build houses
for us to dwell in: neither have we vineyfield, nor seed:
35:10 But we have dwelt in tents, and have obeyed, ancording
to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.

35:11 But it cam when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came up
into the land, that we saand let us go to Jerusalem for fear
of the army of the Chaldeans, and ar of the army of the Syrians:
so we dwell at Jerusalem.

35:12 Then crd of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying, 35:13 Thus
saith the LORD of hosd of Israel; Go and tell the men of
Judah and the inhabitants of Jerus ye not receive
instruction to hearken to my words? saith the LORD.

3words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, that he commanded his
sons not to , are performed; for unto this day they drink
none, but obey their fatmandment: notwithstanding I have
spoken unto you, rising early and spet ye hearkened not unto
me.

35:15 I have sent also unto you all my seprophets, rising
up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now everhis
evil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to send ye shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to
your fa ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto
me.

35:16 Because f Jonadab the son of Rechab have performed the
commandment of their fah he commanded them; but this people
hath not hearkened unto me: 35:17 thus saith the LORD God of
hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bJudah and upon all
the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I haced
against them: because I have spoken unto them, but they have not
hnd I have called unto them, but they have not answered.

35:18 And Jerid unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith
the LORD of hosts, thesrael; Because ye have obeyed the
commandment of Jonadab your father, ll his precepts, and
done according unto all that he hath commanded yoherefore
thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Jonadab the hab shall not want a man to stand before me for ever.

36:1 And it cam in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of
Josiah king of Judah, that came unto Jeremiah from the LORD,
saying, 36:2 Take thee a roll of a write therein all the
words that I have spoken unto thee against Israeinst Judah,
and against all the nations, from the day I spake unto thee
days of Josiah, even unto this day.

36:3 It may be that the house oll hear all the evil which I
purpose to do unto them; that they may re man from his evil
way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sihen Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah: and Baruch wrote
from thf Jeremiah all the words of the LORD, which he had
spoken unto him, up of a book.

36:5 And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up;go
into the house of the LORD: 36:6 Therefore go thou, and read in thewhich thou hast written from my mouth, the words of the LORD in
the eapeople in the LORD’s house upon the fasting day: and
also thou shalt in the ears of all Judah that come out of
their cities.

36:7 It may ill present their supplication before the LORD,
and will return every his evil way: for great is the anger
and the fury that the LORD hath pagainst this people.

36:8 And Baruch the son of Neriah did according t Jeremiah
the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of
in the LORD’s house.

36:9 And it came to pass in the fifth year of the son of
Josiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, that they proclat
before the LORD to all the people in Jerusalem, and to all the peoplme from the cities of Judah unto Jerusalem.

36:10 Then read Baruch inthe words of Jeremiah in the house
of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemaon of Shaphan the scribe,
in the higher court, at the entry of the newe LORD’s house,
in the ears of all the people.

36:11 When Michaiah  Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard
out of the book all the wordsRD, 36:12 Then he went down
into the king’s house, into the scribe: and, lo, all the
princes sat there, even Elishama the scribe, and Deson of
Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son  and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.

36:13 Then Milared unto them all the words that he had
heard, when Baruch read the e ears of the people.

36:14 Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi thethaniah, the
son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, unto Baruch, saying, ine
hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, an Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came
unto theAnd they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears.
So Baruin their ears.

36:16 Now it came to pass, when they had heard all thehey
were afraid both one and other, and said unto Baruch, We will suree king of all these words.

36:17 And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell w didst thou write
all these words at his mouth?  36:18 Then Baruch an, He
pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote thk in the book.

36:19 Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go, hide thee
Jeremiah; and let no man know where ye be.

36:20 And they went in tointo the court, but they laid up
the roll in the chamber of Elishama t and told all the words
in the ears of the king.

36:21 So the king seto fetch the roll: and he took it out of
Elishama the scribe’s chambehudi read it in the ears of the
king, and in the ears of all the prin stood beside the king.

36:22 Now the king sat in the winterhouse in month: and
there was a fire on the hearth burning before him.

36:23 A to pass, that when Jehudi had read three or four
leaves, he cut it wiknife, and cast it into the fire that
was on the hearth, until all theonsumed in the fire that
was on the hearth.

36:24 Yet they were not ant their garments, neither the
king, nor any of his servants that hear these words.

36:25 Nevertheless Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah haercession to the king that he would not burn the roll: but he would
nom.

36:26 But the king commanded Jerahmeel the son of Hammelech, and
S son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to take
Baruch the sceremiah the prophet: but the LORD hid them.

36:27 Then the word of th to Jeremiah, after that the king
had burned the roll, and the words wh wrote at the mouth of
Jeremiah, saying, 36:28 Take thee again anothed write in it
all the former words that were in the first roll, which  the
king of Judah hath burned.

36:29 And thou shalt say to Jehoiakimudah, Thus saith the
LORD; Thou hast burned this roll, saying, Why hasu written
therein, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come anthis land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast?  36:30
 thus saith the LORD of Jehoiakim king of Judah; He shall
have none tohe throne of David: and his dead body shall be
cast out in the day to and in the night to the frost.

36:31 And I will punish him and his se servants for their
iniquity; and I will bring upon them, and upon thets of
Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have
pagainst them; but they hearkened not.

36:32 Then took Jeremiah anothed gave it to Baruch the
scribe, the son of Neriah; who wrote therein fouth of
Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judrned in the fire: and there were added besides unto them many like
worAnd king Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah the
son im, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in the
land of Judahut neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, did
hearke words of the LORD, which he spake by the prophet
Jeremiah.

37:3 Andhe king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and
Zephaniah the son of Maariest to the prophet Jeremiah,
saying, Pray now unto the LORD our God 
37:4 Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people: for they hadhim into prison.

37:5 Then Pharaoh’s army was come forth out of Egyhen the
Chaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they rom Jerusalem.

37:6 Then came the word of the LORD unto the prophet Jying,
37:7 Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; Thus shall ye say tg of Judah, that sent you unto me to enquire of me; Behold,
Pharaoh’ich is come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt
into their own laAnd the Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city,
and td burn it with fire.

37:9 Thus saith the LORD; Deceive not yourselves The
Chaldeans shall surely depart from us: for they shall not depart.or though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that
fight agand there remained but wounded men among them, yet
should they rise up in his tent, and burn this city with
fire.

37:11 And it came to passn the army of the Chaldeans was
broken up from Jerusalem for fear of P army, 37:12 Then
Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the jamin,
to separate himself thence in the midst of the people.

37:13 Awas in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the ward
was there, whose najah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of
Hananiah; and he took Jeremiah tet, saying, Thou fallest away
to the Chaldeans.

37:14 Then said Jerem false; I fall not away to the
Chaldeans.

But he hearkened not to him took Jeremiah, and brought him
to the princes.

37:15 Wherefore the pe wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him,
and put him in prison in the houthan the scribe: for they
had made that the prison.

37:16 When Jeremiered into the dungeon, and into the cabins,
and Jeremiah had remained  days; 37:17 Then Zedekiah the
king sent, and took him out: and the kim secretly in his
house, and said, Is there any word from the LORD? Anh said,
There is: for, said he, thou shalt be delivered into the hand g of Babylon.

37:18 Moreover Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, What hded
against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, thaut me in prison?  37:19 Where are now your prophets which
prophesied uaying, The king of Babylon shall not come
against you, nor against thi  37:20 Therefore hear now, I pray
thee, O my lord the king: let my su, I pray thee, be
accepted before thee; that thou cause me not to retuhouse of
Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.

37:21 Then Zedekiah tommanded that they should commit
Jeremiah into the court of the prisonhat they should give him
daily a piece of bread out of the bakers’ sil all the bread
in the city were spent.

Thus Jeremiah remained in th the prison.

38:1 Then Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah thehur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur the son of
Malchiah, hords that Jeremiah had spoken unto all the
people, saying, 38:2 Thus sLORD, He that remaineth in this
city shall die by the sword, by the fay the pestilence: but
he that goeth forth to the Chaldeans shall live;ll have his
life for a prey, and shall live.

38:3 Thus saith the LORD shall surely be given into the
hand of the king of Babylon’s army, l take it.

38:4 Therefore the princes said unto the king, We beseech is man be put to death: for thus he weakeneth the hands of the men
of main in this city, and the hands of all the people, in
speaking such wthem: for this man seeketh not the welfare of
this people, but the hurhen Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand: for the
king iat can do any thing against you.

38:6 Then took they Jeremiah, and ca the dungeon of
Malchiah the son of Hammelech, that was in the court on:
and they let down Jeremiah with cords. And in the dungeon there wasr, but mire: so Jeremiah sunk in the mire.

38:7 Now when Ebedmelech tan, one of the eunuchs which was
in the king’s house, heard that theeremiah in the dungeon;
the king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin;melech went
forth out of the king’s house, and spake to the king sayMy
lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done  the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he is
like to ger in the place where he is: for there is no more
bread in the city.
n the king commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Take
from hencen with thee, and take up Jeremiah the prophet out
of the dungeon, befo
38:11 So Ebedmelech took the men with him, and went into the house ofnder the treasury, and took thence old cast clouts and old
rotten ragshem down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.

38:12 And Ebedmelech ian said unto Jeremiah, Put now these
old cast clouts and rotten rags e armholes under the cords.
And Jeremiah did so.

38:13 So they drew uith cords, and took him up out of the
dungeon: and Jeremiah remained i of the prison.

38:14 Then Zedekiah the king sent, and took Jeremiah t unto
him into the third entry that is in the house of the LORD: and aid unto Jeremiah, I will ask thee a thing; hide nothing from
me.

38:eremiah said unto Zedekiah, If I declare it unto thee,
wilt thou not sme to death? and if I give thee counsel, wilt
thou not hearken unto meo Zedekiah the king sware secretly
unto Jeremiah, saying, As the LORD made us this soul, I
will not put thee to death, neither will I give thee into the hand of
these men that seek thy life.

38:17 Then said Jeremiah unto Zedekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God
of hosts, the God of Israel; If thou wilt assuredly go forth unto the
king of Babylon’s princes, then thy soul shall live, and this city
shall not be burned ire; and thou shalt live, and thine house:
38:18 But if thou wilt not to the king of Babylon’s princes,
then shall this city be given intoof the Chaldeans, and they
shall burn it with fire, and thou shalt notut of their hand.

38:19 And Zedekiah the king said unto Jeremiah, I af the
Jews that are fallen to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into, and they mock me.

38:20 But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver t I beseech
thee, the voice of the LORD, which I speak unto thee: so itbe
well unto thee, and thy soul shall live.

38:21 But if thou refuse th, this is the word that the LORD
hath shewed me: 38:22 And, behold, en that are left in the
king of Judah’s house shall be brought forthking of Babylon’s
princes, and those women shall say, Thy friends ha, and
have prevailed against thee: thy feet are sunk in the mire, and 
are turned away back.

38:23 So they shall bring out all thy wives andren to the
Chaldeans: and thou shalt not escape out of their hand, bue
taken by the hand of the king of Babylon: and thou shalt cause this
 burned with fire.

38:24 Then said Zedekiah unto Jeremiah, Let no manhese
words, and thou shalt not die.

38:25 But if the princes hear thatalked with thee, and they
come unto thee, and say unto thee, Declare w what thou hast
said unto the king, hide it not from us, and we will e to
death; also what the king said unto thee: 38:26 Then thou shalt sem, I presented my supplication before the king, that he would
not caueturn to Jonathan’s house, to die there.

38:27 Then came all the pr Jeremiah, and asked him: and he
told them according to all these wordking had commanded. So
they left off speaking with him; for the mattererceived.

38:28 So Jeremiah abode in the court of the prison until tht
Jerusalem was taken: and he was there when Jerusalem was taken.

39:ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month,
came Nebuchaking of Babylon and all his army against
Jerusalem, and they besieged And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, the
ninth donth, the city was broken up.

39:3 And all the princes of the king ofame in, and sat in
the middle gate, even Nergalsharezer, Samgarnebo, SRabsaris,
Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, with all the residue of the princes  of Babylon.

39:4 And it came to pass, that when Zedekiah the king ofw
them, and all the men of war, then they fled, and went forth out of
y night, by the way of the king’s garden, by the gate
betwixt the twd he went out the way of the plain.

39:5 But the Chaldeans’ army puer them, and overtook Zedekiah
in the plains of Jericho: and when they him, they brought
him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to Riblah d of
Hamath, where he gave judgment upon him.

39:6 Then the king of B the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah
before his eyes: also the king of Babyll the nobles of
Judah.

39:7 Moreover he put out Zedekiah’s eyes, aim with chains,
to carry him to Babylon.

39:8 And the Chaldeans burne’s house, and the houses of the
people, with fire, and brake down th Jerusalem.

39:9 Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried awve
into Babylon the remnant of the people that remained in the city, aat fell away, that fell to him, with the rest of the people
that remai But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the poor of the
peopad nothing, in the land of Judah, and gave them
vineyards and fields a time.

39:11 Now Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon gave charge concernin to Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, saying, 39:12 Take
him, and to him, and do him no harm; but do unto him even as
he shall say unto 13 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, and Nebushasban,
RabsNergalsharezer, Rabmag, and all the king of Babylon’s
princes; 39:14sent, and took Jeremiah out of the court of
the prison, and committed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son
of Shaphan, that he should carry hi he dwelt among the
people.

39:15 Now the word of the LORD came unto while he was shut
up in the court of the prison, saying, 39:16 Go and bedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the
God Behold, I will bring my words upon this city for evil,
and not for gothey shall be accomplished in that day before
thee.

39:17 But I will ee in that day, saith the LORD: and thou
shalt not be given into the he men of whom thou art afraid.

39:18 For I will surely deliver thee, alt not fall by the
sword, but thy life shall be for a prey unto thee:hou hast
put thy trust in me, saith the LORD.

40:1 The word that cameah from the LORD, after that
Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had from Ramah, when
he had taken him being bound in chains among all thatied
away captive of Jerusalem and Judah, which were carried away captiylon.

40:2 And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said unto ORD thy God hath pronounced this evil upon this place.

40:3 Now the Lought it, and done according as he hath said:
because ye have sinned a the LORD, and have not obeyed his
voice, therefore this thing is come

40:4 And now, behold, I loose thee this day from the chains which wehine hand. If it seem good unto thee to come with me into
Babylon, comwill look well unto thee: but if it seem ill unto
thee to come with melon, forbear: behold, all the land is
before thee: whither it seemeth convenient for thee to go,
thither go.

40:5 Now while he was not yet , he said, Go back also to
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphhe king of
Babylon hath made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwhim among the people: or go wheresoever it seemeth convenient unto
theo the captain of the guard gave him victuals and a
reward, and let him6 Then went Jeremiah unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; and
dwhim among the people that were left in the land.

40:7 Now when all th of the forces which were in the fields,
even they and their men, hearking of Babylon had made
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the lad committed
unto him men, and women, and children, and of the poor of of
them that were not carried away captive to Babylon; 40:8 Then they
aliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and
Johanan and Jo sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of
Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephophathite, and Jezaniah the
son of a Maachathite, they and their men.
edaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan sware unto them
and to thaying, Fear not to serve the Chaldeans: dwell in
the land, and serve t Babylon, and it shall be well with
you.

40:10 As for me, behold, I wat Mizpah, to serve the
Chaldeans, which will come unto us: but ye, gane, and summer
fruits, and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwelcities that ye have taken.

40:11 Likewise when all the Jews that were, and among the
Ammonites, and in Edom, and that were in all the count that
the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan; 40:12 Even
all thurned out of all places whither they were driven, and
came to the land to Gedaliah, unto Mizpah, and gathered wine
and summer fruits very mu Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forcee in the fields, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, 40:14 And
said unto him, ertainly know that Baalis the king of the
Ammonites hath sent Ishmael Nethaniah to slay thee? But
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam believed them n Then Johanan the son of Kareah spake to Gedaliah in Mizpah
secretly s me go, I pray thee, and I will slay Ishmael the
son of Nethaniah, andall know it: wherefore should he slay
thee, that all the Jews which ar unto thee should be
scattered, and the remnant in Judah perish?  40:1iah the
son of Ahikam said unto Johanan the son of Kareah, Thou shalt is thing: for thou speakest falsely of Ishmael.

41:1 Now it came to pe seventh month, that Ishmael the son of
Nethaniah the son of Elishamaeed royal, and the princes of
the king, even ten men with him, came uniah the son of Ahikam
to Mizpah; and there they did eat bread together.

41:2 Then arose Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and the ten men that
him, and smote Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan
with the  slew him, whom the king of Babylon had made
governor over the land.

el also slew all the Jews that were with him, even with
Gedaliah, at M the Chaldeans that were found there, and the
men of war.

41:4 And itass the second day after he had slain Gedaliah,
and no man knew it, 41here came certain from Shechem, from
Shiloh, and from Samaria, even fon, having their beards
shaven, and their clothes rent, and having cut , with
offerings and incense in their hand, to bring them to the houseRD.

41:6 And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to mweeping all along as he went: and it came to pass, as he met
them, he hem, Come to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.

41:7 And it was so, when theo the midst of the city, that
Ishmael the son of Nethaniah slew them, hem into the midst
of the pit, he, and the men that were with him.

41 men were found among them that said unto Ishmael, Slay us
not: for wees in the field, of wheat, and of barley, and
of oil, and of honey. Soe forbare, and slew them not among their
brethren.

41:9 Now the pit wmael had cast all the dead bodies of the
men, whom he had slain becausiah, was it which Asa the king
had made for fear of Baasha king of Isrhmael the son of
Nethaniah filled it with them that were slain.

41:10ael carried away captive all the residue of the people
that were in Mithe king’s daughters, and all the people
that remained in Mizpah, whadan the captain of the guard had
committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahihmael the son of
Nethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to  the
Ammonites.

41:11 But when Johanan the son of Kareah, and all thef the
forces that were with him, heard of all the evil that Ishmael thethaniah had done, 41:12 Then they took all the men, and went to
fightel the son of Nethaniah, and found him by the great
waters that are in1:13 Now it came to pass, that when all the people which were with
Ishhanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forces that were hen they were glad.

41:14 So all the people that Ishmael had carried ve from
Mizpah cast about and returned, and went unto Johanan the son 

41:15 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eig went to the Ammonites.

41:16 Then took Johanan the son of Kareah, ane captains of the
forces that were with him, all the remnant of the pehe had
recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah, afterd slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, even mighty men of war, and
the woe children, and the eunuchs, whom he had brought
again from Gibeon: 41ey departed, and dwelt in the
habitation of Chimham, which is by Bethl to enter into
Egypt, 41:18 Because of the Chaldeans: for they were afm,
because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had slain Gedaliah the son of
m the king of Babylon made governor in the land.

42:1 Then all the cathe forces, and Johanan the son of
Kareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hos all the people from the
least even unto the greatest, came near, 42:2unto Jeremiah
the prophet, Let, we beseech thee, our supplication be afore
thee, and pray for us unto the LORD thy God, even for all this
re we are left but a few of many, as thine eyes do behold
us:) 42:3 That thy God may shew us the way wherein we may
walk, and the thing that w

42:4 Then Jeremiah the prophet said unto them, I have heard you;
behl pray unto the LORD your God according to your words;
and it shall co, that whatsoever thing the LORD shall answer
you, I will declare it u I will keep nothing back from you.

42:5 Then they said to Jeremiah, e a true and faithful
witness between us, if we do not even according ngs for the
which the LORD thy God shall send thee to us.

42:6 Whetheod, or whether it be evil, we will obey the voice
of the LORD our God, send thee; that it may be well with
us, when we obey the voice of the God.

42:7 And it came to pass after ten days, that the word of the Lto Jeremiah.

42:8 Then called he Johanan the son of Kareah, and all ts of
the forces which were with him, and all the people from the leasthe greatest, 42:9 And said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, the God
of to whom ye sent me to present your supplication before
him; 42:10 If yll abide in this land, then will I build you,
and not pull you down, aplant you, and not pluck you up: for
I repent me of the evil that I hato you.

42:11 Be not afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom ye are afot afraid of him, saith the LORD: for I am with you to save you, and
tyou from his hand.

42:12 And I will shew mercies unto you, that he macy upon
you, and cause you to return to your own land.

42:13 But if ywill not dwell in this land, neither obey the
voice of the LORD your G Saying, No; but we will go into the
land of Egypt, where we shall see nor hear the sound of the
trumpet, nor have hunger of bread; and therdwell: 42:15 And
now therefore hear the word of the LORD, ye remnant ohus
saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; If ye wholly set your
enter into Egypt, and go to sojourn there; 42:16 Then it
shall come tot the sword, which ye feared, shall overtake
you there in the land of  and the famine, whereof ye were
afraid, shall follow close after you gypt; and there ye
shall die.

42:17 So shall it be with all the men teir faces to go into
Egypt to sojourn there; they shall die by the swofamine,
and by the pestilence: and none of them shall remain or escapeevil that I will bring upon them.

42:18 For thus saith the LORD of hod of Israel; As mine
anger and my fury hath been poured forth upon thets of
Jerusalem; so shall my fury be poured forth upon you, when ye shinto Egypt: and ye shall be an execration, and an astonishment,
and a a reproach; and ye shall see this place no more.

42:19 The LORD hath rning you, O ye remnant of Judah; Go ye
not into Egypt: know certainlye admonished you this day.

42:20 For ye dissembled in your hearts, wh me unto the LORD
your God, saying, Pray for us unto the LORD our God;cording
unto all that the LORD our God shall say, so declare unto us,  do it.

42:21 And now I have this day declared it to you; but ye haveed the voice of the LORD your God, nor any thing for the which he
hathnto you.

42:22 Now therefore know certainly that ye shall die by the 
the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place whither ye desire to
sojourn.

43:1 And it came to pass, that when Jeremiah had made an endng unto all the people all the words of the LORD their God, for
which eir God had sent him to them, even all these words,
43:2 Then spake Azon of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of
Kareah, and all the proud men,  Jeremiah, Thou speakest
falsely: the LORD our God hath not sent thee not into Egypt
to sojourn there: 43:3 But Baruch the son of Neriah seton
against us, for to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that
t put us to death, and carry us away captives into Babylon.

43:4 So Je son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces,
and all the peoplnot the voice of the LORD, to dwell in the
land of Judah.

43:5 But Joon of Kareah, and all the captains of the
forces, took all the remnant that were returned from all
nations, whither they had been driven, tohe land of Judah;
43:6 Even men, and women, and children, and the kingghters, and
every person that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had
Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Jeremiah the
prophruch the son of Neriah.

43:7 So they came into the land of Egypt: fored not the
voice of the LORD: thus came they even to Tahpanhes.

43:8 the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah in Tahpanhes,
saying, 43:9 Take gren thine hand, and hide them in the
clay in the brickkiln, which is at of Pharaoh’s house in
Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah; 4ay unto them,
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold,nd
and take Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and will sne upon these stones that I have hid; and he shall spread his
royal par them.

43:11 And when he cometh, he shall smite the land of Egypt, a such as are for death to death; and such as are for captivity
to captuch as are for the sword to the sword.

43:12 And I will kindle a firen the houses of the gods of Egypt; and
he shall burn them, and carry them away captives: and he shall array
himself with the land of Egypt, as a shepherd putteth on his garment;
and he shall go forth from thence in peace.

43:13 He shall break also the images of Bethshemesh, that the
land of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of the Egyptians shall ith fire.

44:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jewsll in the land of Egypt, which dwell at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes,
and and in the country of Pathros, saying, 44:2 Thus saith
the LORD of hosd of Israel; Ye have seen all the evil that I
have brought upon Jerusapon all the cities of Judah; and,
behold, this day they are a desolatiman dwelleth therein,
44:3 Because of their wickedness which they haved to provoke
me to anger, in that they went to burn incense, and to seods, whom they knew not, neither they, ye, nor your fathers.

44:4 How unto you all my servants the prophets, rising
early and sending them,h, do not this abominable thing that
I hate.

44:5 But they hearkened ned their ear to turn from their
wickedness, to burn no incense unto oer gods.

44:6 Wherefore my fury and mine anger was poured forth, and d in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; and
they arend desolate, as at this day.

44:7 Therefore now thus saith the LORD, f hosts, the God of
Israel; Wherefore commit ye this great evil againsuls, to cut
off from you man and woman, child and suckling, out of Judeave
you none to remain; 44:8 In that ye provoke me unto wrath with thof your hands, burning incense unto other gods in the land of
Egypt, w be gone to dwell, that ye might cut yourselves off,
and that ye mightse and a reproach among all the nations of
the earth?  44:9 Have ye foe wickedness of your fathers, and
the wickedness of the kings of Judahwickedness of their
wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickednesswives,
which they have committed in the land of Judah, and in the streusalem?  44:10 They are not humbled even unto this day, neither
have t, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, that I set
before you and  fathers.

44:11 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Isld, I will set my face against you for evil, and to cut off all
Judah.nd I will take the remnant of Judah, that have set their faces
to go ind of Egypt to sojourn there, and they shall all be
consumed, and fall land of Egypt; they shall even be consumed
by the sword and by the fa shall die, from the least even
unto the greatest, by the sword and byne: and they shall be
an execration, and an astonishment, and a curse,roach.

44:13 For I will punish them that dwell in the land of Egypt, punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by the
pestilence So that none of the remnant of Judah, which are gone
into the land of sojourn there, shall escape or remain, that
they should return into tJudah, to the which they have a
desire to return to dwell there: for nreturn but such as
shall escape.

44:15 Then all the men which knew thves had burned incense
unto other gods, and all the women that stood b multitude,
even all the people that dwelt in the land of Egypt, in Paswered Jeremiah, saying, 44:16 As for the word that thou hast spoken
uthe name of the LORD, we will not hearken unto thee.

44:17 But we willy do whatsoever thing goeth forth out of our
own mouth, to burn incene queen of heaven, and to pour out
drink offerings unto her, as we have, and our fathers, our
kings, and our princes, in the cities of Judahhe streets of
Jerusalem: for then had we plenty of victuals, and were  saw
no evil.

44:18 But since we left off to burn incense to the queen,
and to pour out drink offerings unto her, we have wanted all things been consumed by the sword and by the famine.

44:19 And when we burn to the queen of heaven, and poured
out drink offerings unto her, did r cakes to worship her,
and pour out drink offerings unto her, without  44:20 Then
Jeremiah said unto all the people, to the men, and to thed
to all the people which had given him that answer, saying, 44:21 Theat ye burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of
Jerusalem, our fathers, your kings, and your princes, and the
people of the land,e LORD remember them, and came it not
into his mind?  44:22 So that thould no longer bear, because
of the evil of your doings, and because ominations which ye
have committed; therefore is your land a desolationstonishment, and a curse, without an inhabitant, as at this day.

44:2 ye have burned incense, and because ye have sinned
against the LORD, ot obeyed the voice of the LORD, nor
walked in his law, nor in his sta in his testimonies;
therefore this evil is happened unto you, as at t44:24 Moreover Jeremiah said unto all the people, and to all the
womenword of the LORD, all Judah that are in the land of
Egypt: 44:25 Thus LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying;
Ye and your wives have both ith your mouths, and fulfilled
with your hand, saying, We will surely ur vows that we have
vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, anout drink
offerings unto her: ye will surely accomplish your vows, andperform your vows.

44:26 Therefore hear ye the word of the LORD, all h that dwell in
the land of Egypt; Behold, I have sworn by my great nathe
LORD, that my name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man in all the land of Egypt, saying, The Lord GOD liveth.

44:27 Behold, ch over them for evil, and not for good: and
all the men of Judah thathe land of Egypt shall be consumed
by the sword and by the famine, untbe an end of them.

44:28 Yet a small number that escape the sword shaout of the
land of Egypt into the land of Judah, and all the remnant ohat are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall know
whoseall stand, mine, or theirs.

44:29 And this shall be a sign unto you,  LORD, that I will
punish you in this place, that ye may know that my l surely
stand against you for evil: 44:30 Thus saith the LORD; Beholdgive Pharaohhophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, and
intd of them that seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah king of
Judah into th Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, his enemy, and
that sought his life.
word that Jeremiah the prophet spake unto Baruch the son of
Neriah, whwritten these words in a book at the mouth of
Jeremiah, in the fourth Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of
Judah, saying, 45:2 Thus saith thee God of Israel, unto thee,
O Baruch: 45:3 Thou didst say, Woe is me ne LORD hath added
grief to my sorrow; I fainted in my sighing, and I ft.

45:4 Thus shalt thou say unto him, The LORD saith thus; Behold, thhave built will I break down, and that which I have planted I
will plun this whole land.

45:5 And seekest thou great things for thyself? set: for,
behold, I will bring evil upon all flesh, saith the LORD: but ll I give unto thee for a prey in all places whither thou goest.

46:1of the LORD which came to Jeremiah the prophet against
the Gentiles; 4t Egypt, against the army of Pharaohnecho
king of Egypt, which was by Euphrates in Carchemish, which
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote inh year of Jehoiakim
the son of Josiah king of Judah.

46:3 Order ye thnd shield, and draw near to battle.

46:4 Harness the horses; and get emen, and stand forth with
your helmets; furbish the spears, and put oandines.

46:5 Wherefore have I seen them dismayed and turned away bacr mighty ones are beaten down, and are fled apace, and look not
back: s round about, saith the LORD.

46:6 Let not the swift flee away, nor ty man escape; they
shall stumble, and fall toward the north by the rites.

46:7 Who is this that cometh up as a flood, whose waters are mov rivers?  46:8 Egypt riseth up like a flood, and his waters are
moved ivers; and he saith, I will go up, and will cover the
earth; I will deity and the inhabitants thereof.

46:9 Come up, ye horses; and rage, y; and let the mighty men
come forth; the Ethiopians and the Libyans, tthe shield;
and the Lydians, that handle and bend the bow.

46:10 For e day of the Lord GOD of hosts, a day of
vengeance, that he may avenge adversaries: and the sword
shall devour, and it shall be satiate and  with their blood:
for the Lord GOD of hosts hath a sacrifice in the nry by the
river Euphrates.

46:11 Go up into Gilead, and take balm, O e daughter of
Egypt: in vain shalt thou use many medicines; for thou se
cured.

46:12 The nations have heard of thy shame, and thy cry hath 
land: for the mighty man hath stumbled against the mighty, and they
aboth together.

46:13 The word that the LORD spake to Jeremiah the proebuchadrezzar king of Babylon should come and smite the land of
Egypt.clare ye in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in Noph
and in T: say ye, Stand fast, and prepare thee; for the sword
shall devour routhee.

46:15 Why are thy valiant men swept away? they stood not, becauD did drive them.

46:16 He made many to fall, yea, one fell upon anothey said,
Arise, and let us go again to our own people, and to the lanativity, from the oppressing sword.

46:17 They did cry there, Pharaohgypt is but a noise; he
hath passed the time appointed.

46:18 As I lithe King, whose name is the LORD of hosts,
Surely as Tabor is among ths, and as Carmel by the sea, so
shall he come.

46:19 O thou daughter pt, furnish thyself to go into
captivity: for Noph shall be waste and olate without an inhabitant.

46:20 Egypt is like a very fair heifer, ction cometh; it
cometh out of the north.

46:21 Also her hired men aridst of her like fatted bullocks;
for they also are turned back, and ay together: they did
not stand, because the day of their calamity was n them, and
the time of their visitation.

46:22 The voice thereof sha a serpent; for they shall march
with an army, and come against her wis hewers of wood.

46:23 They shall cut down her forest, saith the LORt cannot
be searched; because they are more than the grasshoppers, andrable.

46:24 The daughter of Egypt shall be confounded; she shall be
ered into the hand of the people of the north.

46:25 The LORD of hostof Israel, saith; Behold, I will
punish the multitude of No, and Pharaypt, with their gods,
and their kings; even Pharaoh, and all them thatim: 46:26
And I will deliver them into the hand of those that seek theand into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the handvants: and afterward it shall be inhabited, as in the days
of old, saiD.

46:27 But fear not thou, O my servant Jacob, and be not dismayed, or, behold, I will save thee from afar off, and thy seed from
the landcaptivity; and Jacob shall return, and be in rest
and at ease, and nonke him afraid.

46:28 Fear thou not, O Jacob my servant, saith the LOR with
thee; for I will make a full end of all the nations whither I hahee: but I will not make a full end of thee, but correct thee
in measull I not leave thee wholly unpunished.

47:1 The word of the LORD thatJeremiah the prophet against
the Philistines, before that Pharaoh smot7:2 Thus saith the LORD; Behold, waters rise up out of the north, and
 overflowing flood, and shall overflow the land, and all
that is therety, and them that dwell therein: then the men
shall cry, and all the its of the land shall howl.

47:3 At the noise of the stamping of the hs strong horses,
at the rushing of his chariots, and at the rumbling ols, the
fathers shall not look back to their children for feebleness o7:4 Because of the day that cometh to spoil all the Philistines, and
tfrom Tyrus and Zidon every helper that remaineth: for the
LORD will spilistines, the remnant of the country of
Caphtor.

47:5 Baldness is coa; Ashkelon is cut off with the remnant
of their valley: how long wilthyself?  47:6 O thou sword of
the LORD, how long will it be ere thou but up thyself into
thy scabbard, rest, and be still.

47:7 How can it eeing the LORD hath given it a charge
against Ashkelon, and against th? there hath he appointed
it.

48:1 Against Moab thus saith the LORD oe God of Israel; Woe
unto Nebo! for it is spoiled: Kiriathaim is confotaken:
Misgab is confounded and dismayed.

48:2 There shall be no more Moab: in Heshbon they have
devised evil against it; come, and let us from being a
nation. Also thou shalt be cut down, O Madmen; the sword sue
thee.

48:3 A voice of crying shall be from Horonaim, spoiling andtruction.

48:4 Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry t.

48:5 For in the going up of Luhith continual weeping shall go up; fgoing down of Horonaim the enemies have heard a cry of
destruction.

4save your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.

48:7 For be hast trusted in thy works and in thy treasures,
thou shalt also be tahemosh shall go forth into captivity
with his priests and his princes 
48:8 And the spoiler shall come upon every city, and no city shall
esvalley also shall perish, and the plain shall be
destroyed, as the LORken.

48:9 Give wings unto Moab, that it may flee and get away: for ththereof shall be desolate, without any to dwell therein.

48:10 Cursedt doeth the work of the LORD deceitfully, and
cursed be he that keepet sword from blood.

48:11 Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and htled on
his lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, nei he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remained in him, and
his ot changed.

48:12 Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, tsend unto him wanderers, that shall cause him to wander, and shall
empels, and break their bottles.

48:13 And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemthe house of Israel was
ashamed of Bethel their confidence.

48:14 Howe are mighty and strong men for the war?  48:15
Moab is spoiled, and g of her cities, and his chosen young
men are gone down to the slaughtee King, whose name is the
LORD of hosts.

48:16 The calamity of Moab iome, and his affliction hasteth
fast.

48:17 All ye that are about himm; and all ye that know his
name, say, How is the strong staff broken,autiful rod!
48:18 Thou daughter that dost inhabit Dibon, come down fry,
and sit in thirst; for the spoiler of Moab shall come upon thee, andestroy thy strong holds.

48:19 O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the wy; ask him that
fleeth, and her that escapeth, and say, What is done? b is
confounded; for it is broken down: howl and cry; tell ye it in Arab is spoiled, 48:21 And judgment is come upon the plain
country; upon upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath, 48:22 And
upon Dibon, and upon Nebo,ethdiblathaim, 48:23 And upon
Kiriathaim, and upon Bethgamul, and upon 48:24 And upon
Kerioth, and upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of tMoab,
far or near.

48:25 The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is ith the
LORD.

48:26 Make ye him drunken: for he magnified himself agaORD:
Moab also shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in deri27 For was not Israel a derision unto thee? was he found among
thievesnce thou spakest of him, thou skippedst for joy.

48:28 O ye that dwel leave the cities, and dwell in the
rock, and be like the dove that mast in the sides of the
hole’s mouth.

48:29 We have heard the pride (he is exceeding proud) his
loftiness, and his arrogancy, and his pridhaughtiness of
his heart.

48:30 I know his wrath, saith the LORD; butnot be so; his
lies shall not so effect it.

48:31 Therefore will I ho, and I will cry out for all Moab;
mine heart shall mourn for the men s.

48:32 O vine of Sibmah, I will weep for thee with the weeping of
Jplants are gone over the sea, they reach even to the sea of
Jazer: thes fallen upon thy summer fruits and upon thy
vintage.

48:33 And joy a is taken from the plentiful field, and from
the land of Moab, and I h wine to fail from the winepresses:
none shall tread with shouting; thing shall be no shouting.

48:34 From the cry of Heshbon even unto Eleven unto Jahaz,
have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even unto Hor
heifer of three years old: for the waters also of Nimrim shall be
des:35 Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab, saith the LORD, him that
o the high places, and him that burneth incense to his gods.

48:36 Thee heart shall sound for Moab like pipes, and mine
heart shall sound lifor the men of Kirheres: because the
riches that he hath gotten are pe8:37 For every head shall be bald, and every beard clipped: upon all
thall be cuttings, and upon the loins sackcloth.

48:38 There shall be  generally upon all the housetops of
Moab, and in the streets thereof:broken Moab like a vessel
wherein is no pleasure, saith the LORD.

48:9 They shall howl, saying, How is it broken down! how hath Moab
turned the back with shame! so shall Moab be a derision and a
dismaying to all them about him.

48:40 For thus saith the LORD; Behold, he shall fly as an eagle, and
shall spread his wings over Moab.

48:41 Kerioth isand the strong holds are surprised, and the
mighty men’s hearts in Mat day shall be as the heart of a
woman in her pangs.

48:42 And Moab e destroyed from being a people, because he hath
magnified himself agaORD.

48:43 Fear, and the pit, and the snare, shall be upon thee, O
inf Moab, saith the LORD.

48:44 He that fleeth from the fear shall fall pit; and he
that getteth up out of the pit shall be taken in the snarill
bring upon it, even upon Moab, the year of their visitation, saith

48:45 They that fled stood under the shadow of Heshbon because of th but a fire shall come forth out of Heshbon, and a flame from
the mids and shall devour the corner of Moab, and the crown
of the head of theus ones.

48:46 Woe be unto thee, O Moab! the people of Chemosh perishons are taken captives, and thy daughters captives.

48:47 Yet will I ng again the captivity of Moab in the latter days,
saith the LORD. Thuhe judgment of Moab.

49:1 Concerning the Ammonites, thus saith the LOIsrael no
sons?  hath he no heir? why then doth their king inherit Gadeople dwell in his cities?  49:2 Therefore, behold, the days come,
saiD, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard in
Rabbah of the Ammo it shall be a desolate heap, and her
daughters shall be burned with fshall Israel be heir unto
them that were his heirs, saith the LORD.

4O Heshbon, for Ai is spoiled: cry, ye daughters of Rabbah,
gird you with; lament, and run to and fro by the hedges; for
their king shall go ivity, and his priests and his princes
together.

49:4 Wherefore glorin the valleys, thy flowing valley, O
backsliding daughter? that trustetreasures, saying, Who shall
come unto me?  49:5 Behold, I will bring n thee, saith the
Lord GOD of hosts, from all those that be about theee shall be
driven out every man right forth; and none shall gather up wandereth.

49:6 And afterward I will bring again the captivity of theof
Ammon, saith the LORD.

49:7 Concerning Edom, thus saith the LORD os wisdom no more
in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is thm
vanished?  49:8 Flee ye, turn back, dwell deep, O inhabitants of
Dedwill bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that I
will visit h If grapegatherers come to thee, would they not leave some
gleaning grhieves by night, they will destroy till they have
enough.

49:10 But I Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places,
and he shall not be abhimself: his seed is spoiled, and his
brethren, and his neighbours, ant.

49:11 Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; awidows trust in me.

49:12 For thus saith the LORD; Behold, they whosewas not to
drink of the cup have assuredly drunken; and art thou he thltogether go unpunished? thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou shalt
nk of it.

49:13 For I have sworn by myself, saith the LORD, that Bozrbecome a desolation, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all the
citf shall be perpetual wastes.

49:14 I have heard a rumour from the LORn ambassador is sent
unto the heathen, saying, Gather ye together, andst her,
and rise up to the battle.

49:15 For, lo, I will make thee smthe heathen, and despised
among men.

49:16 Thy terribleness hath dece, and the pride of thine
heart, O thou that dwellest in the clefts of hat holdest
the height of the hill: though thou shouldest make thy nesas
the eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith the LORD.

49:om shall be a desolation: every one that goeth by it
shall be astonishhall hiss at all the plagues thereof.

49:18 As in the overthrow of Soorrah and the neighbour
cities thereof, saith the LORD, no man shall ae, neither
shall a son of man dwell in it.

49:19 Behold, he shall coma lion from the swelling of Jordan
against the habitation of the stron will suddenly make him run
away from her: and who is a chosen man, thpoint over her?
for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time?  that
shepherd that will stand before me?  49:20 Therefore hear the coe LORD, that he hath taken against Edom; and his purposes, that
he hatd against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely the least of
the flock shalm out: surely he shall make their habitations
desolate with them.

49:arth is moved at the noise of their fall, at the cry the
noise thereof in the Red sea.

49:22 Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle,d his
wings over Bozrah: and at that day shall the heart of the mightyom be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.

49:23 Concerning Damascuss confounded, and Arpad: for they
have heard evil tidings: they are fathere is sorrow on the
sea; it cannot be quiet.

49:24 Damascus is wax and turneth herself to flee, and fear
hath seized on her: anguish andave taken her, as a woman in
travail.

49:25 How is the city of praise the city of my joy!  49:26
Therefore her young men shall fall in her d all the men of
war shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD of h27 And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall
conse palaces of Benhadad.

49:28 Concerning Kedar, and concerning the kinazor, which
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon shall smite, thus saith these
ye, go up to Kedar, and spoil the men of the east.

49:29 Their teneir flocks shall they take away: they shall
take to themselves their cnd all their vessels, and their
camels; and they shall cry unto them, n every side.

49:30 Flee, get you far off, dwell deep, O ye inhabitanor,
saith the LORD; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath taken counst you, and hath conceived a purpose against you.

49:31 Arise, get yo the wealthy nation, that dwelleth without
care, saith the LORD, whichher gates nor bars, which dwell
alone.

49:32 And their camels shall band the multitude of their
cattle a spoil: and I will scatter into allm that are in the
utmost corners; and I will bring their calamity from
thereof, saith the LORD.

49:33 And Hazor shall be a dwelling for dra desolation for
ever: there shall no man abide there, nor any son of mn it.

49:34 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet agm in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,
49:aith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will break the bow of
Elam, the chier might.

49:36 And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the fou
of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there
shnation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come.

49:37 For I will m to be dismayed before their enemies, and
before them that seek their I will bring evil upon them,
even my fierce anger, saith the LORD; anend the sword after
them, till I have consumed them: 49:38 And I will one in
Elam, and will destroy from thence the king and the princes, saORD.

49:39 But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will n the captivity of Elam, saith the LORD.

50:1 The word that the LORD nst Babylon and against the land
of the Chaldeans by Jeremiah the prop Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and set up a standard;
pubconceal not: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is confounded,
Merodach is broces; her idols are confounded, her images are
broken in pieces.

50:3  the north there cometh up a nation against her, which
shall make her te, and none shall dwell therein: they shall
remove, they shall depart and beast.

50:4 In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, theof
Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah together, going a: they shall go, and seek the LORD their God.

50:5 They shall ask theion with their faces thitherward,
saying, Come, and let us join oursel LORD in a perpetual
covenant that shall not be forgotten.

50:6 My pebeen lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them
to go astray, they hd them away on the mountains: they have
gone from mountain to hill, thrgotten their restingplace.

50:7 All that found them have devoured thir adversaries
said, We offend not, because they have sinned against t, the
habitation of justice, even the LORD, the hope of their fathers.ove out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land
of the Cand be as the he goats before the flocks.

50:9 For, lo, I will raise to come up against Babylon an
assembly of great nations from the northnd they shall set
themselves in array against her; from thence she shaen: their
arrows shall be as of a mighty expert man; none shall return50:10 And Chaldea shall be a spoil: all that spoil her shall be
satisf the LORD.

50:11 Because ye were glad, because ye rejoiced, O ye destmine heritage, because ye are grown fat as the heifer at grass, and
bells; 50:12 Your mother shall be sore confounded; she that
bare you shamed: behold, the hindermost of the nations shall
be a wilderness, a drd a desert.

50:13 Because of the wrath of the LORD it shall not be inut
it shall be wholly desolate: every one that goeth by Babylon shall shed, and hiss at all her plagues.

50:14 Put yourselves in array agaion round about: all ye that
bend the bow, shoot at her, spare no arrow hath sinned
against the LORD.

50:15 Shout against her round about: sven her hand: her
foundations are fallen, her walls are thrown down: fthe
vengeance of the LORD: take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, unto her.

50:16 Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handlethle
in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his own
land.

50 is a scattered sheep; the lions have driven him away:
first the king  hath devoured him; and last this
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath  bones.

50:18 Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Isra I will punish the king of Babylon and his land, as I have
punished th Assyria.

50:19 And I will bring Israel again to his habitation, and eed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon mount
E Gilead.

50:20 In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the iIsrael shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins of
Jthey shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom I
reserve.

50:21inst the land of Merathaim, even against it, and
against the inhabitand: waste and utterly destroy after
them, saith the LORD, and do accordthat I have commanded
thee.

50:22 A sound of battle is in the land, a destruction.

50:23 How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder en! how
is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!  50:24 I havsnare for thee, and thou art also taken, O Babylon, and thou wast not
u art found, and also caught, because thou hast striven
against the LO The LORD hath opened his armoury, and hath brought forth the
weapons ignation: for this is the work of the Lord GOD of
hosts in the land ofeans.

50:26 Come against her from the utmost border, open her storeho her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly: let nothing of her be
left.y all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woe
unto them! day is come, the time of their visitation.

50:28 The voice of them thd escape out of the land of
Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance D our God, the
vengeance of his temple.

50:29 Call together the archet Babylon: all ye that bend the
bow, camp against it round about; let f escape: recompense
her according to her work; according to all that done, do
unto her: for she hath been proud against the LORD, against t of Israel.

50:30 Therefore shall her young men fall in the streets, 
men of war shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD.

50:31 Beholinst thee, O thou most proud, saith the Lord GOD
of hosts: for thy day the time that I will visit thee.

50:32 And the most proud shall stuml, and none shall raise
him up: and I will kindle a fire in his citieshall devour
all round about him.

50:33 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; en of Israel and the
children of Judah were oppressed together: and alk them
captives held them fast; they refused to let them go.

50:34 Ther is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name: he
shall throughly plead e, that he may give rest to the land,
and disquiet the inhabitants of 0:35 A sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith the LORD, and upon the
inhababylon, and upon her princes, and upon her wise men.

50:36 A sword is liars; and they shall dote: a sword is upon
her mighty men; and they smayed.

50:37 A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, l the mingled people that are in the midst of her; and they shall
becon: a sword is upon her treasures; and they shall be
robbed.

50:38 A dupon her waters; and they shall be dried up: for it
is the land of gra, and they are mad upon their idols.

50:39 Therefore the wild beasts ert with the wild beasts of
the islands shall dwell there, and the owlll therein: and
it shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall elt in
from generation to generation.

50:40 As God overthrew Sodom anh and the neighbour cities
thereof, saith the LORD; so shall no man abneither shall
any son of man dwell therein.

50:41 Behold, a people shrom the north, and a great nation,
and many kings shall be raised up fasts of the earth.

50:42 They shall hold the bow and the lance: they  and will
not shew mercy: their voice shall roar like the sea, and thee upon horses, every one put in array, like a man to the battle,
again daughter of Babylon.

50:43 The king of Babylon hath heard the reporthem, and his hands
waxed feeble: anguish took hold of him, and pangs aman in
travail.

50:44 Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the s Jordan
unto the habitation of the strong: but I will make them suddeny from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her?
for e me? and who will appoint me the time? and who is that
shepherd that  before me?  50:45 Therefore hear ye the
counsel of the LORD, that he n against Babylon; and his
purposes, that he hath purposed against thehe Chaldeans:
Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out: surelmake their habitation desolate with them.

50:46 At the noise of the t Babylon the earth is moved, and
the cry is heard among the nations.

saith the LORD; Behold, I will raise up against Babylon, and
against twell in the midst of them that rise up against me,
a destroying wind; ill send unto Babylon fanners, that shall
fan her, and shall empty her in the day of trouble they
shall be against her round about.

51:3 Agthat bendeth let the archer bend his bow, and against
him that lifteth in his brigandine: and spare ye not her
young men; destroy ye utterlyost.

51:4 Thus the slain shall fall in the land of the Chaldeans, and are thrust through in her streets.

51:5 For Israel hath not been forr Judah of his God, of the
LORD of hosts; though their land was filledagainst the Holy
One of Israel.

51:6 Flee out of the midst of Babylonliver every man his soul:
be not cut off in her iniquity; for this is f the LORD’s
vengeance; he will render unto her a recompence.

51:7 ath been a golden cup in the LORD’s hand, that made all
the earth dr nations have drunken of her wine; therefore the
nations are mad.

51:is suddenly fallen and destroyed: howl for her; take balm
for her pain she may be healed.

51:9 We would have healed Babylon, but she is notorsake her,
and let us go every one into his own country: for her judgheth unto heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies.

51:10 The LORD ht forth our righteousness: come, and let us
declare in Zion the work D our God.

51:11 Make bright the arrows; gather the shields: the LORDed
up the spirit of the kings of the Medes: for his device is against
 destroy it; because it is the vengeance of the LORD, the
vengeance ofe.

51:12 Set up the standard upon the walls of Babylon, make the watcset up the watchmen, prepare the ambushes: for the LORD hath
both devine that which he spake against the inhabitants of
Babylon.

51:13 O thellest upon many waters, abundant in treasures,
thine end is come, andre of thy covetousness.

51:14 The LORD of hosts hath sworn by himselfely I will
fill thee with men, as with caterpillers; and they shall lishout against thee.

51:15 He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the
world by his wisdom, and hath stretched out the heaven by his
understanding.

51:16 When he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters in
the heavens; and he causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the
earth: he maketh lightnings with rain, and brth the wind out
of his treasures.

51:17 Every man is brutish by his kevery founder is
confounded by the graven image: for his molten image hood, and
there is no breath in them.

51:18 They are vanity, the work in the time of their
visitation they shall perish.

51:19 The portion is not like them; for he is the former of
all things: and Israel is tis inheritance: the LORD of
hosts is his name.

51:20 Thou art my batt weapons of war: for with thee will I
break in pieces the nations, and will I destroy kingdoms;
51:21 And with thee will I break in pieces tnd his rider;
and with thee will I break in pieces the chariot and his1:22
With thee also will I break in pieces man and woman; and with thereak in pieces old and young; and with thee will I break in
pieces the and the maid; 51:23 I will also break in pieces
with thee the shepherflock; and with thee will I break in
pieces the husbandman and his yok; and with thee will I break
in pieces captains and rulers.

51:24 Andender unto Babylon and to all the inhabitants of
Chaldea all their evive done in Zion in your sight,
saith the LORD.

51:25 Behold, I am agast thee, O destroying mountain, saith the
LORD, which destroyest all t and I will stretch out mine hand
upon thee, and roll thee down from t and will make thee a
burnt mountain.

51:26 And they shall not take o a stone for a corner, nor a
stone for foundations; but thou shalt be or ever, saith the
LORD.

51:27 Set ye up a standard in the land, blowpet among the
nations, prepare the nations against her, call together r
the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashchenaz; appoint a captain
agaiause the horses to come up as the rough caterpillers.

51:28 Prepare a the nations with the kings of the Medes, the
captains thereof, and alrs thereof, and all the land of his
dominion.

51:29 And the land shaland sorrow: for every purpose of the
LORD shall be performed against Bmake the land of Babylon a
desolation without an inhabitant.

51:30 Thn of Babylon have forborn to fight, they have
remained in their holds:might hath failed; they became as
women: they have burned her dwellinger bars are broken.

51:31 One post shall run to meet another, and one to meet
another, to shew the king of Babylon that his city is taken a51:32 And that the passages are stopped, and the reeds they have
burnee, and the men of war are affrighted.

51:33 For thus saith the LORD othe God of Israel; The
daughter of Babylon is like a threshingfloor, i to thresh
her: yet a little while, and the time of her harvest shall 34 Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon hath devoured me, he hath
crushe hath made me an empty vessel, he hath swallowed me up
like a dragon, lled his belly with my delicates, he hath
cast me out.

51:35 The violto me and to my flesh be upon Babylon, shall
the inhabitant of Zion sablood upon the inhabitants of
Chaldea, shall Jerusalem say.

51:36 The saith the LORD; Behold, I will plead thy cause,
and take vengeance fod I will dry up her sea, and make her
springs dry.

51:37 And Babylon ome heaps, a dwellingplace for dragons, an
astonishment, and an hissin an inhabitant.

51:38 They shall roar together like lions: they shallons’
whelps.

51:39 In their heat I will make their feasts, and I wihem
drunken, that they may rejoice, and sleep a perpetual sleep, and nsaith the LORD.

51:40 I will bring them down like lambs to the slaugh rams
with he goats.

51:41 How is Sheshach taken! and how is the praiwhole earth
surprised! how is Babylon become an astonishment among the51:42 The sea is come up upon Babylon: she is covered with the
multitu waves thereof.

51:43 Her cities are a desolation, a dry land, and a , a
land wherein no man dwelleth, neither doth any son of man pass
the44 And I will punish Bel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out of
hishat which he hath swallowed up: and the nations shall not
flow togethere unto him: yea, the wall of Babylon shall fall.

51:45 My people, go the midst of her, and deliver ye every
man his soul from the fierce ahe LORD.

51:46 And lest your heart faint, and ye fear for the rumour be heard in the land; a rumour shall both come one year, and after
thaher year shall come a rumour, and violence in the land,
ruler against :47 Therefore, behold, the days come, that I will do judgment upon
theages of Babylon: and her whole land shall be confounded,
and all her s fall in the midst of her.

51:48 Then the heaven and the earth, and as therein, shall
sing for Babylon: for the spoilers shall come unto hee north,
saith the LORD.

51:49 As Babylon hath caused the slain of Isl, so at
Babylon shall fall the slain of all the earth.

51:50 Ye thatped the sword, go away, stand not still:
remember the LORD afar off, ausalem come into your mind.

51:51 We are confounded, because we have roach: shame hath
covered our faces: for strangers are come into the s of the
LORD’s house.

51:52 Wherefore, behold, the days come, saith that I will do
judgment upon her graven images: and through all her lounded
shall groan.

51:53 Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, a she should
fortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall spoi
unto her, saith the LORD.

51:54 A sound of a cry cometh from Babylonreat destruction from
the land of the Chaldeans: 51:55 Because the LORoiled
Babylon, and destroyed out of her the great voice; when her wave like great waters, a noise of their voice is uttered: 51:56
Because tr is come upon her, even upon Babylon, and her
mighty men are taken, ef their bows is broken: for the LORD
God of recompences shall surely r1:57 And I will make drunk her princes, and her wise men, her
captainsrulers, and her mighty men: and they shall sleep a
perpetual sleep, anke, saith the King, whose name is the LORD
of hosts.

51:58 Thus saith of hosts; The broad walls of Babylon shall
be utterly broken, and hers shall be burned with fire; and
the people shall labour in vain, and in the fire, and they
shall be weary.

51:59 The word which Jeremiah t commanded Seraiah the son of
Neriah, the son of Maaseiah, when he wenekiah the king of
Judah into Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. raiah
was a quiet prince.

51:60 So Jeremiah wrote in a book all the eshould come upon
Babylon, even all these words that are written agains.

51:61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When thou comest to Babylon, an, and shalt read all these words; 51:62 Then shalt thou say,
O LORD, tpoken against this place, to cut it off, that none
shall remain in it,an nor beast, but that it shall be
desolate for ever.

51:63 And it shhen thou hast made an end of reading this
book, that thou shalt bind ait, and cast it into the midst
of Euphrates: 51:64 And thou shalt say,l Babylon sink, and
shall not rise from the evil that I will bring upo they
shall be weary. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.

52:1 Zedekiand twenty years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned eleven yeasalem. And his mother’s name was
Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of52:2 And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD, accordingat Jehoiakim had done.

52:3 For through the anger of the LORD it camein Jerusalem
and Judah, till he had cast them out from his presence, tah
rebelled against the king of Babylon.

52:4 And it came to pass in  year of his reign, in the tenth
month, in the tenth day of the month,chadrezzar king of
Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusaleitched
against it, and built forts against it round about.

52:5 So th besieged unto the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.

52:6 And in the foh, in the ninth day of the month, the
famine was sore in the city, so  was no bread for the people
of the land.

52:7 Then the city was brok all the men of war fled, and
went forth out of the city by night by t the gate between the
two walls, which was by the king’s garden; (noldeans were by
the city round about:) and they went by the way of the 8 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and
overtook Z the plains of Jericho; and all his army was
scattered from him.

52:9 took the king, and carried him up unto the king of
Babylon to Riblah nd of Hamath; where he gave judgment upon
him.

52:10 And the king of w the sons of Zedekiah before his
eyes: he slew also all the princes oRiblah.

52:11 Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah; and the king of Bund him in chains, and carried him to Babylon, and put him in prison
ty of his death.

52:12 Now in the fifth month, in the tenth day of theich was
the nineteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, came
Ne, captain of the guard, which served the king of Babylon,
into Jerusalnd burned the house of the LORD, and the king’s
house; and all the hf Jerusalem, and all the houses of the
great men, burned he with fire:d all the army of the
Chaldeans, that were with the captain of the guaown all the
walls of Jerusalem round about.

52:15 Then Nebuzaradan thof the guard carried away captive
certain of the poor of the people, aidue of the people that
remained in the city, and those that fell awayl to the king
of Babylon, and the rest of the multitude.

52:16 But Nethe captain of the guard left certain of the
poor of the land for vinend for husbandmen.

52:17 Also the pillars of brass that were in the he LORD,
and the bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of theChaldeans brake, and carried all the brass of them to Babylon.

52:18 caldrons also, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the
bowls, and tand all the vessels of brass wherewith they
ministered, took they awayAnd the basons, and the firepans, and the bowls, and the
caldrons, andesticks, and the spoons, and the cups; that
which was of gold in gold,which was of silver in silver,
took the captain of the guard away.

52o pillars, one sea, and twelve brasen bulls that were
under the bases,g Solomon had made in the house of the LORD:
the brass of all these ves without weight.

52:21 And concerning the pillars, the height of ones
eighteen cubits; and a fillet of twelve cubits did compass it; and ts thereof was four fingers: it was hollow.

52:22 And a chapiter of brn it; and the height of one
chapiter was five cubits, with network andtes upon the
chapiters round about, all of brass. The second pillar alpomegranates were like unto these.

52:23 And there were ninety and siates on a side; and all
the pomegranates upon the network were an hundbout.

52:24 And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief prieshaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door: 52:25
He out of the city an eunuch, which had the charge of the
men of war; and of them that were near the king’s person,
which were found in the che principal scribe of the host,
who mustered the people of the land; ore men of the people
of the land, that were found in the midst of the:26 So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought
theng of Babylon to Riblah.

52:27 And the king of Babylon smote them, an to death in
Riblah in the land of Hamath. Thus Judah was carried awayt
of his own land.

52:28 This is the people whom Nebuchadrezzar carricaptive: in
the seventh year three thousand Jews and three and twenty:the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar he carried away captive from
Jerht hundred thirty and two persons: 52:30 In the three and
twentieth yechadrezzar Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard
carried away captive os seven hundred forty and five persons:
all the persons were four thouix hundred.

52:31 And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth yeartivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, in the
five th day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of Babylon
in the first yereign lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king
of Judah, and brought him f prison.

52:32 And spake kindly unto him, and set his throne above tof the kings that were with him in Babylon, 52:33 And changed his
pris: and he did continually eat bread before him all the
days of his lifend for his diet, there was a continual diet given him of the
king of Bvery day a portion until the day of his death, all
the days of his lifLamentations of Jeremiah


1:1 How doth the city sit solitary, that waeople! how is
she become as a widow! she that was great among the natiincess among the provinces, how is she become tributary!  1:2 She
weep in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: among all
her lovers se to comfort her: all her friends have dealt
treacherously with her, tcome her enemies.

1:3 Judah is gone into captivity because of afflictecause of
great servitude: she dwelleth among the heathen, she findethll her persecutors overtook her between the straits.

1:4 The ways of urn, because none come to the solemn feasts:
all her gates are desolatsts sigh, her virgins are
afflicted, and she is in bitterness.

1:5 Hees are the chief, her enemies prosper; for the LORD
hath afflicted hermultitude of her transgressions: her
children are gone into captivity e enemy.

1:6 And from the daughter of Zion all her beauty is departedes are become like harts that find no pasture, and they are gone
witho before the pursuer.

1:7 Jerusalem remembered in the days of her affl of her
miseries all her pleasant things that she had in the days of oer people fell into the hand of the enemy, and none did help her: the
 saw her, and did mock at her sabbaths.

1:8 Jerusalem hath grievouslyerefore she is removed: all
that honoured her despise her, because theen her nakedness:
yea, she sigheth, and turneth backward.

1:9 Her filn her skirts; she remembereth not her last end;
therefore she came downderfully: she had no comforter. O LORD,
behold my affliction: for theh magnified himself.

1:10 The adversary hath spread out his hand uponleasant
things: for she hath seen that the heathen entered into her sawhom thou didst command that they should not enter into thy
congregatiAll her people sigh, they seek bread; they have given their
pleasant tmeat to relieve the soul: see, O LORD, and
consider; for I am become v Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? behold, and see if
there brow like unto my sorrow, which is done unto me,
wherewith the LORD hatd me in the day of his fierce anger.

1:13 From above hath he sent firbones, and it prevaileth
against them: he hath spread a net for my fee turned me
back: he hath made me desolate and faint all the day.

1:14of my transgressions is bound by his hand: they are
wreathed, and comey neck: he hath made my strength to fall,
the LORD hath delivered me iands, from whom I am not able
to rise up.

1:15 The LORD hath trodden  all my mighty men in the midst
of me: he hath called an assembly agairush my young men:
the LORD hath trodden the virgin, the daughter of J in a
winepress.

1:16 For these things I weep; mine eye, mine eye runwith
water, because the comforter that should relieve my soul is far fe: my children are desolate, because the enemy prevailed.

1:17 Zion sorth her hands, and there is none to comfort her:
the LORD hath commanrning Jacob, that his adversaries should
be round about him: Jerusalem a menstruous woman among them.

1:18 The LORD is righteous; for I hav against his
commandment: hear, I pray you, all people, and behold my 
virgins and my young men are gone into captivity.

1:19 I called for , but they deceived me: my priests and mine
elders gave up the ghost i, while they sought their meat to
relieve their souls.

1:20 Behold, Or I am in distress: my bowels are troubled;
mine heart is turned withi have grievously rebelled: abroad
the sword bereaveth, at home there i.

1:21 They have heard that I sigh: there is none to comfort me: all
es have heard of my trouble; they are glad that thou hast
done it: thong the day that thou hast called, and they shall
be like unto me.

1:2their wickedness come before thee; and do unto them, as
thou hast doneor all my transgressions: for my sighs are
many, and my heart is faint2:1 How hath the LORD covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in hisd cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of Israel,
and rememhis footstool in the day of his anger!  2:2 The
LORD hath swallowed upabitations of Jacob, and hath not
pitied: he hath thrown down in his wtrong holds of the
daughter of Judah; he hath brought them down to the hath
polluted the kingdom and the princes thereof.

2:3 He hath cut oierce anger all the horn of Israel: he
hath drawn back his right hand e enemy, and he burned
against Jacob like a flaming fire, which devourabout.

2:4 He hath bent his bow like an enemy: he stood with his right hand
as an adversary, and slew all that were pleasant to the eye in the
tabernacle of the daughter of Zion: he poured out his fury like fire.

2:5 The LORD was as an enemy: he hath swallowed up Israel, he hath
swallowed up all her palaces: he hath destroyed his strong holds, an increased in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.

2:6 Andolently taken away his tabernacle, as if it were of
a garden: he hath is places of the assembly: the LORD hath
caused the solemn feasts and o be forgotten in Zion, and
hath despised in the indignation of his anking and the priest.

2:7 The LORD hath cast off his altar, he hath ab sanctuary,
he hath given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of h;
they have made a noise in the house of the LORD, as in the day of a
st.

2:8 The LORD hath purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of hath stretched out a line, he hath not withdrawn his hand
from destrofore he made the rampart and the wall to lament;
they languished togetHer gates are sunk into the ground; he hath destroyed and broken
her bnd her princes are among the Gentiles: the law is
no more; her prophetalso find no vision from the LORD.

2:10 The elders of the daughter oft upon the ground, and keep
silence: they have cast up dust upon theirey have girded
themselves with sackcloth: the virgins of Jerusalem hanheir
heads to the ground.

2:11 Mine eyes do fail with tears, my bowelubled, my liver is
poured upon the earth, for the destruction of the d my
people; because the children and the sucklings swoon in the streetty.

2:12 They say to their mothers, Where is corn and wine? when theyas the wounded in the streets of the city, when their soul was
poured heir mothers’ bosom.

2:13 What thing shall I take to witness for th thing shall I
liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? what shall I eqe,
that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion? for thy breach ke the sea: who can heal thee?  2:14 Thy prophets have seen
vain and f things for thee: and they have not discovered thine
iniquity, to turn captivity; but have seen for thee false
burdens and causes of banishmAll that pass by clap their hands at thee; they hiss and wag
their headaughter of Jerusalem, saying, Is this the city that
men call The perfbeauty, The joy of the whole earth?  2:16
All thine enemies have openeuth against thee: they hiss and
gnash the teeth: they say, We have swar up: certainly this is
the day that we looked for; we have found, we it.

2:17 The LORD hath done that which he had devised; he hath fulfilrd that he had commanded in the days of old: he hath thrown
down, and pitied: and he hath caused thine enemy to rejoice
over thee, he hath shorn of thine adversaries.

2:18 Their heart cried unto the LORD, O wadaughter of Zion,
let tears run down like a river day and night: give  rest;
let not the apple of thine eye cease.

2:19 Arise, cry out in tin the beginning of the watches pour
out thine heart like water before of the LORD: lift up thy
hands toward him for the life of thy young chat faint for
hunger in the top of every street.

2:20 Behold, O LORD,er to whom thou hast done this. Shall
the women eat their fruit, and c a span long? shall the
priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctua Lord?  2:21
The young and the old lie on the ground in the streets: mnd
my young men are fallen by the sword; thou hast slain them in the d anger; thou hast killed, and not pitied.

2:22 Thou hast called as inday my terrors round about, so
that in the day of the LORD’s anger nd nor remained: those
that I have swaddled and brought up hath mine ened.

3:1 I AM the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrat He hath led me, and brought me into darkness, but not into light.

3:gainst me is he turned; he turneth his hand against me all
the day.

3h and my skin hath he made old; he hath broken my bones.

3:5 He hath ainst me, and compassed me with gall and
travail.

3:6 He hath set me ces, as they that be dead of old.

3:7 He hath hedged me about, that It out: he hath made my
chain heavy.

3:8 Also when I cry and shout, heout my prayer.

3:9 He hath inclosed my ways with hewn stone, he hath hs
crooked.

3:10 He was unto me as a bear lying in wait, and as a lioet
places.

3:11 He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in piecesmade me desolate.

3:12 He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for

3:13 He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my reins.as a derision to all my people; and their song all the day.

3:15 He hme with bitterness, he hath made me drunken with
wormwood.

3:16 He haoken my teeth with gravel stones, he hath covered
me with ashes.

3:17ast removed my soul far off from peace: I forgat
prosperity.

3:18 AndMy strength and my hope is perished from the LORD:
3:19 Remembering miion and my misery, the wormwood and the
gall.

3:20 My soul hath them membrance, and is humbled in me.

3:21 This I recall to my mind, thereI hope.

3:22 It is of the LORD’s mercies that we are not consumed, s
compassions fail not.

3:23 They are new every morning: great is thyss.

3:24 The LORD is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope:25 The LORD is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that
see3:26 It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the
son of the LORD.

3:27 It is good for a man that he bear the yoke of hi3:28 He sitteth alone and keepeth silence, because he hath borne it
up3:29 He putteth his mouth in the dust; if so be there may be hope.

3:th his cheek to him that smiteth him: he is filled full
with reproach. the LORD will not cast off for ever: 3:32 But though he cause
grief, e have compassion according to the multitude of his
mercies.

3:33 Fort afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men.

3:34 To crush undall the prisoners of the earth.

3:35 To turn aside the right of a mane face of the most
High, 3:36 To subvert a man in his cause, the LORD not.

3:37 Who is he that saith, and it cometh to pass, when the Lord
it not?  3:38 Out of the mouth of the most High proceedeth
not evil an9 Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man
for the punishment of hi40 Let us search and try our ways,
and turn again to the LORD.

3:41 L up our heart with our hands unto God in the heavens.

3:42 We have trand have rebelled: thou hast not pardoned.

3:43 Thou hast covered wit persecuted us: thou hast slain,
thou hast not pitied.

3:44 Thou hastyself with a cloud, that our prayer should
not pass through.

3:45 Tho us as the offscouring and refuse in the midst of
the people.

3:46 Ales have opened their mouths against us.

3:47 Fear and a snare is come desolation and destruction.

3:48 Mine eye runneth down with rivers or the destruction of
the daughter of my people.

3:49 Mine eye tricklend ceaseth not, without any
intermission.

3:50 Till the LORD look dowold from heaven.

3:51 Mine eye affecteth mine heart because of all ths of my
city.

3:52 Mine enemies chased me sore, like a bird, without e.

3:53 They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and cast a stone up4 Waters flowed over mine head; then I said, I am cut off.

3:55 I calthy name, O LORD, out of the low dungeon.

3:56 Thou hast heard my voiot thine ear at my breathing, at
my cry.

3:57 Thou drewest near in th I called upon thee: thou
saidst, Fear not.

3:58 O LORD, thou hast pl causes of my soul; thou hast
redeemed my life.

3:59 O LORD, thou haswrong: judge thou my cause.

3:60 Thou hast seen all their vengeance ar imaginations
against me.

3:61 Thou hast heard their reproach, O LOR their
imaginations against me; 3:62 The lips of those that rose up agnd their device against me all the day.

3:63 Behold their sitting dowir rising up; I am their
musick.

3:64 Render unto them a recompence, cording to the work of
their hands.

3:65 Give them sorrow of heart, tunto them.

3:66 Persecute and destroy them in anger from under the hehe
LORD.

4:1 How is the gold become dim! how is the most fine gold ch
stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the top of every street.

4cious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, how are they
esteemed as chers, the work of the hands of the potter!
4:3 Even the sea monsters e breast, they give suck to their
young ones: the daughter of my people cruel, like the
ostriches in the wilderness.

4:4 The tongue of the hild cleaveth to the roof of his mouth
for thirst: the young children and no man breaketh it unto
them.

4:5 They that did feed delicately ae in the streets: they
that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghilor the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is
greahe punishment of the sin of Sodom, that was overthrown
as in a moment,nds stayed on her.

4:7 Her Nazarites were purer than snow, they were  milk,
they were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was o: 4:8 Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known
in the sir skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it
is become like a sThey that be slain with the sword are better than they that be
slain w for these pine away, stricken through for want of
the fruits of the f10 The hands of the pitiful women have sodden their own children:
they meat in the destruction of the daughter of my people.

4:11 The LORD mplished his fury; he hath poured out his
fierce anger, and hath kindld it hath devoured
the foundations thereof.

4:12 The kings of the earl the inhabitants of the world,
would not have believed that the advere enemy should have
entered into the gates of Jerusalem.

4:13 For theher prophets, and the iniquities of her priests,
that have shed the bljust in the midst of her, 4:14 They
have wandered as blind men in the hey have polluted
themselves with blood, so that men could not touch tnts.

4:15 They cried unto them, Depart ye; it is unclean; depart, dep not: when they fled away and wandered, they said among the
heathen, Tno more sojourn there.

4:16 The anger of the LORD hath divided them;  more regard
them: they respected not the persons of the priests, theyot
the elders.

4:17 As for us, our eyes as yet failed for our vain he
watching we have watched for a nation that could not save us.

4:18 Tr steps, that we cannot go in our streets: our end is
near, our days aed; for our end is come.

4:19 Our persecutors are swifter than the eahe heaven: they
pursued us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us iderness.

4:20 The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the LORD, wn their pits, of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among
th
4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the
lahe cup also shall pass through unto thee: thou shalt be
drunken, and sthyself naked.

4:22 The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished,r of
Zion; he will no more carry thee away into captivity: he will visniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will discover thy sins.

5:1 Remember,at is come upon us: consider, and behold our
reproach.

5:2 Our inheri turned to strangers, our houses to aliens.

5:3 We are orphans and faour mothers are as widows.

5:4 We have drunken our water for money; o sold unto us.

5:5 Our necks are under persecution: we labour, and ha.

5:6 We have given the hand to the Egyptians, and to the Assyrians, sfied with bread.

5:7 Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we haheir
iniquities.

5:8 Servants have ruled over us: there is none that er us
out of their hand.

5:9 We gat our bread with the peril of our le of the sword
of the wilderness.

5:10 Our skin was black like an oveof the terrible famine.

5:11 They ravished the women in Zion, and thein the cities of
Judah.

5:12 Princes are hanged up by their hand: the elders were not
honoured.

5:13 They took the young men to grind, andren fell under the
wood.

5:14 The elders have ceased from the gate, tn from their
musick.

5:15 The joy of our heart is ceased; our dance into
mourning.

5:16 The crown is fallen from our head: woe unto us, the
sinned!  5:17 For this our heart is faint; for these things our eyes
5:18 Because of the mountain of Zion, which is desolate, the foxes
wa

5:19 Thou, O LORD, remainest for ever; thy throne from generation ton.

5:20 Wherefore dost thou forget us for ever, and forsake us so lon21 Turn thou us unto thee, O LORD, and we shall be turned;
renew our dold.

5:22 But thou hast utterly rejected us; thou art very wroth agai

The Book of the Prophet Ezekiel


1:1 Now it came to pass in the thi, in the fourth month,
in the fifth day of the month, as I was among ts by the river
of Chebar, that the heavens were opened, and I saw visi

1:2 In the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of king
’s captivity, 1:3 The word of the LORD came expressly unto
Ezekiel t the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by
the river Chebar; annd of the LORD was there upon him.

1:4 And I looked, and, behold, a wcame out of the north, a
great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, andness was about
it, and out of the midst thereof as the colour of ambere
midst of the fire.

1:5 Also out of the midst thereof came the likenr living
creatures. And this was their appearance; they had the likenean.

1:6 And every one had four faces, and every one had four wings.

eir feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was
like the salf’s foot: and they sparkled like the colour of
burnished brass.

1y had the hands of a man under their wings on their four
sides; and thd their faces and their wings.

1:9 Their wings were joined one to anoey turned not when they
went; they went every one straight forward.

1the likeness of their faces, they four had the face of a
man, and the lion, on the right side: and they four had the
face of an ox on the lehey four also had the face of an
eagle.

1:11 Thus were their faces: angs were stretched upward; two
wings of every one were joined one to ad two covered their
bodies.

1:12 And they went every one straight forher the spirit was
to go, they went; and they turned not when they wens for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was
like coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps: it went
up and down aiving creatures; and the fire was bright, and
out of the fire went forng.

1:14 And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance  of lightning.

1:15 Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold one  the
earth by the living creatures, with his four faces.

1:16 The appthe wheels and their work was like unto the
colour of a beryl: and the one likeness: and their
appearance and their work was as it were a whe middle of a
wheel.

1:17 When they went, they went upon their four sthey turned
not when they went.

1:18 As for their rings, they were so they were dreadful;
and their rings were full of eyes round about the19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went by them: and
whng creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels
were lifted up.thersoever the spirit was to go, they went, thither was their
spirit the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the
spirit of the livi was in the wheels.

1:21 When those went, these went; and when those se stood;
and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels werp over against them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the
1:22 And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads of the living
cr as the colour of the terrible crystal, stretched forth
over their hea1:23 And under the firmament were their wings straight, the one toward: every one had two, which covered on this side, and every
one had twovered on that side, their bodies.

1:24 And when they went, I heard ththeir wings, like the
noise of great waters, as the voice of the Almigice of
speech, as the noise of an host: when they stood, they let downgs.

1:25 And there was a voice from the firmament that was over theiren they stood, and had let down their wings.

1:26 And above the firmawas over their heads was the
likeness of a throne, as the appearance ore stone: and upon
the likeness of the throne was the likeness as the  of a man
above upon it.

1:27 And I saw as the colour of amber, as thnce of fire round
about within it, from the appearance of his loins ev and
from the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw as it were ance of fire, and it had brightness round about.

1:28 As the appearanbow that is in the cloud in the day of
rain, so was the appearance of ss round about. This was
the appearance of the likeness of the glory oLORD. And when I
saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake.

2:1 And he said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I will
speak unto thee.

2:2 And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set me
upon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me.

2:3 And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the  of
Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me: theyfathers have transgressed against me, even unto this very day.

2:4 Foe impudent children and stiffhearted. I do send thee
unto them; and thay unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD.

2:5 And they, whether they wil whether they will forbear,
(for they are a rebellious house,) yet shat there hath been
a prophet among them.

2:6 And thou, son of man, be  of them, neither be afraid of
their words, though briers and thorns bee, and thou dost
dwell among scorpions: be not afraid of their words,smayed
at their looks, though they be a rebellious house.

2:7 And thoeak my words unto them, whether they will hear,
or whether they will fr they are most rebellious.

2:8 But thou, son of man, hear what I say not thou
rebellious like that rebellious house: open thy mouth, and et that I
give thee.

2:9 And when I looked, behold, an hand was sent u, lo, a
roll of a book was therein; 2:10 And he spread it before me; awritten within and without: and there was written therein
lamentationsning, and woe.

3:1 Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, eat that thoeat
this roll, and go speak unto the house of Israel.

3:2 So I opened, and he caused me to eat that roll.

3:3 And he said unto me, Son of thy belly to eat, and fill
thy bowels with this roll that I give thee.I eat it; and it
was in my mouth as honey for sweetness.

3:4 And he so me, Son of man, go, get thee unto the house of
Israel, and speak witunto them.

3:5 For thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech anguage, but to the house of Israel; 3:6 Not to many people of a
stranand of an hard language, whose words thou canst not
understand. Surelynt thee to them, they would have hearkened
unto thee.

3:7 But the houl will not hearken unto thee; for they will
not hearken unto me: for ase of Israel are impudent and
hardhearted.

3:8 Behold, I have made thng against their faces, and thy
forehead strong against their forehead an adamant harder than flint have I made thy forehead: fear
them not, be dismayed at their looks, though they be a
rebellious house.

3:10 e said unto me, Son of man, all my words that I shall
speak unto thee  thine heart, and hear with thine ears.

3:11 And go, get thee to themptivity, unto the children of
thy people, and speak unto them, and telus saith the Lord
GOD; whether they will hear, or whether they will fo12 Then the spirit took me up, and I heard behind me a voice of a
grea saying, Blessed be the glory of the LORD from his
place.

3:13 I heare noise of the wings of the living creatures that
touched one another,noise of the wheels over against them,
and a noise of a great rushing.the spirit lifted me up, and took me away, and I went in
bitterness, i of my spirit; but the hand of the LORD was
strong upon me.

3:15 Then them of the captivity at Telabib, that dwelt by
the river of Chebar, here they sat, and remained there
astonished among them seven days.

3 came to pass at the end of seven days, that the word of
the LORD cameaying, 3:17 Son of man, I have made thee a
watchman unto the house of refore hear the word at my
mouth, and give them warning from me.

3:18 unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou
givest him not warnispeakest to warn the wicked from his
wicked way, to save his life; thed man shall die in his
iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine19 Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness,
ns wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast
delivered th20 Again, When a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and
city, and I lay a stumbling-block before him, he shall die:
because thogiven him warning, he shall die in his sin, and
his righteousness whicdone shall not be remembered; but his
blood will I require at thine haNevertheless if thou warn the righteous man, that the righteous
sin nooth not sin, he shall surely live, because he is
warned; also thou hasd thy soul.

3:22 And the hand of the LORD was there upon me; and he se,
Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with thee.

3 arose, and went forth into the plain: and, behold, the
glory of the Lhere, as the glory which I saw by the river
of Chebar: and I fell on m24 Then the spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet, and
spakend said unto me, Go, shut thyself within thine house.

3:25 But thou, an, behold, they shall put bands upon thee,
and shall bind thee with t thou shalt not go out among them:
3:26 And I will make thy tongue cle roof of thy mouth, that
thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to them : for they are
a rebellious house.

3:27 But when I speak with thee, I thy mouth, and thou shalt
say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; He th, let him hear;
and he that forbeareth, let him forbear: for they arous
house.

4:1 Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it be
and pourtray upon it the city, even Jerusalem: 4:2 And lay siege
agai build a fort against it, and cast a mount against it;
set the camp alainst it, and set battering rams against it round
about.

4:3 Moreoverunto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of
iron between thee and and set thy face against it, and it
shall be besieged, and thou shalt gainst it. This shall be
a sign to the house of Israel.

4:4 Lie thou thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the
house of Israel upon it: acthe number of the days that thou
shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear they.

4:5 For I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, accordiumber of the days, three hundred and ninety days: so shalt
thou bear ty of the house of Israel.

4:6 And when thou hast accomplished them, l on thy right side,
and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of J days: I
have appointed thee each day for a year.

4:7 Therefore thou thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem,
and thine arm shall be uncoverou shalt prophesy against it.

4:8 And, behold, I will lay bands upon thou shalt not turn
thee from one side to another, till thou hast endeof thy
siege.

4:9 Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beantiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessel, and
make thereof, according to the number of the days that thou
shalt lie upon three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat
thereof.

4:10 And thy meou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty
shekels a day: from time to tiou eat it.

4:11 Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the sixth parin:
from time to time shalt thou drink.

4:12 And thou shalt eat it askes, and thou shalt bake it
with dung that cometh out of man, in their:13 And the LORD said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat
theibread among the Gentiles, whither I will drive them.

4:14 Then said IOD! behold, my soul hath not been polluted:
for from my youth up even ve I not eaten of that which
dieth of itself, or is torn in pieces; neme there abominable
flesh into my mouth.

4:15 Then he said unto me, Liven thee cow’s dung for man’s
dung, and thou shalt prepare thy brth.

4:16 Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break tf bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and
with car shall drink water by measure, and with
astonishment: 4:17 That they mad and water, and be astonied
one with another, and consume away for tty.

5:1 And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee a
bazor, and cause it to pass upon thine head and upon thy
beard: then takances to weigh, and divide the hair.

5:2 Thou shalt burn with fire a in the midst of the city,
when the days of the siege are fulfilled: anlt take a third
part, and smite about it with a knife: and a third parlt
scatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them.

5:3 Talso take thereof a few in number, and bind them in thy
skirts.

5:4 T them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire,
and burn them i; for thereof shall a fire come forth into
all the house of Israel.

5th the Lord GOD; This is Jerusalem: I have set it in the
midst of the  countries that are round about her.

5:6 And she hath changed my judgto wickedness more than the
nations, and my statutes more than the cout are round about
her: for they have refused my judgments and my statuhave not
walked in them.

5:7 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Becautiplied more than
the nations that are round about you, and have not w
statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done accordinggments of the nations that are round about you; 5:8
Therefore thus said GOD; Behold, I, even I, am against thee,
and will execute judgments st of thee in the sight of the
nations.

5:9 And I will do in thee thaI have not done, and whereunto I
will not do any more the like, becaushine abominations.

5:10 Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in t thee,
and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgmee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds.

5ore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD; Surely, because thou
hast defiled  with all thy detestable things, and with all
thine abominations, ther diminish thee; neither shall
mine eye spare, neither will I have any ty.

5:12 A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and withhall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part
shall falword round about thee; and I will scatter a third
part into all the wid I will draw out a sword after them.

5:13 Thus shall mine anger be aed, and I will cause my fury
to rest upon them, and I will be comfortey shall know that I
the LORD have spoken it in my zeal, when I have ac my fury
in them.

5:14 Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproace nations
that are round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by. it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an
astonishmen nations that are round about thee, when I shall
execute judgments in nger and in fury and in furious rebukes.
I the LORD have spoken it.

5 shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which
shall be for thction, and which I will send to destroy you:
and I will increase the fn you, and will break your staff of
bread: 5:17 So will I send upon yond evil beasts, and they
shall bereave thee: and pestilence and blood s through thee;
and I will bring the sword upon thee. I the LORD have 

6:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 6:2 Son of man, se toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,
6:3 And sntains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD;
Thus saith the Lord Gmountains, and to the hills, to the
rivers, and to the valleys; Beholdn I, will bring a sword upon
you, and I will destroy your high places.your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall be
broken: and I  down your slain men before your idols.

6:5 And I will lay the dead cthe children of Israel before
their idols; and I will scatter your bonbout your altars.

6:6 In all your dwellingplaces the cities shall be , and the
high places shall be desolate; that your altars may be laid 
made desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your imaget down, and your works may be abolished.

6:7 And the slain shall falldst of you, and ye shall know
that I am the LORD.

6:8 Yet will I leavt, that ye may have some that shall
escape the sword among the nations shall be scattered through
the countries.

6:9 And they that escape oll remember me among the nations
whither they shall be carried captive I am broken with their
whorish heart, which hath departed from me, anir eyes, which
go a whoring after their idols: and they shall lothe thor
the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.

6:1 shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not said
in vain that  this evil unto them.

6:11 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Smite with thine d stamp with
thy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil abominations of f
Israel! for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the
e.

6:12 He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that il fall by the sword; and he that remaineth and is besieged
shall die bne: thus will I accomplish my fury upon them.

6:13 Then shall ye know the LORD, when their slain men shall
be among their idols round aboutrs, upon every high hill,
in all the tops of the mountains, and under een tree, and
under every thick oak, the place where they did offer sw to
all their idols.

6:14 So will I stretch out my hand upon them, an land
desolate, yea, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath,eir habitations: and they shall know that I am the LORD.

7:1 Moreoverf the LORD came unto me, saying, 7:2 Also, thou
son of man, thus saithGOD unto the land of Israel; An end,
the end is come upon the four cor land.

7:3 Now is the end come upon thee, and I will send mine anger , and will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompense
upon hine abominations.

7:4 And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither wility: but I
will recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations  in
the midst of thee: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

7:5 Thus Lord GOD; An evil, an only evil, behold, is come.

7:6 An end is comeis come: it watcheth for thee; behold, it
is come.

7:7 The morning is thee, O thou that dwellest in the land:
the time is come, the day of  is near, and not the sounding
again of the mountains.

7:8 Now will I pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish mine
anger upon thee: and dge thee according to thy ways, and will
recompense thee for all thineions.

7:9 And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I wense thee according to thy ways and thine abominations that are
in thethee; and ye shall know that I am the LORD that
smiteth.

7:10 Behold behold, it is come: the morning is gone forth;
the rod hath blossomed,h budded.

7:11 Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness: none ofl
remain, nor of their multitude, nor of any of theirs: neither shall
ailing for them.

7:12 The time is come, the day draweth near: let not
rejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon all the multitude
th13 For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although
thet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitude
thereof, whichreturn; neither shall any strengthen himself
in the iniquity of his li They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but none
goeth te: for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.

7:15 The sword is d the pestilence and the famine within:
he that is in the field shall e sword; and he that is in
the city, famine and pestilence shall devou6 But they that escape of them shall escape, and shall be on the
mountdoves of the valleys, all of them mourning, every one
for his iniquity hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water.

7:18 Thlso gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall
cover them; and s be upon all faces, and baldness upon all
their heads.

7:19 They shalir silver in the streets, and their gold shall
be removed: their silve gold shall not be able to deliver
them in the day of the wrath of they shall not satisfy their
souls, neither fill their bowels: because itumblingblock of
their iniquity.

7:20 As for the beauty of his ornamenit in majesty: but they
made the images of their abominations and of table things
therein: therefore have I set it far from them.

7:21 And e it into the hands of the strangers for a prey,
and to the wicked of or a spoil; and they shall pollute it.

7:22 My face will I turn also  and they shall pollute my
secret place: for the robbers shall enter iand defile it.

7:23 Make a chain: for the land is full of bloody crim city
is full of violence.

7:24 Wherefore I will bring the worst of t, and they shall
possess their houses: I will also make the pomp of tho
cease; and their holy places shall be defiled.

7:25 Destruction comthey shall seek peace, and there shall be
none.

7:26 Mischief shall cmischief, and rumour shall be upon
rumour; then shall they seek a visirophet; but the law
shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the

7:27 The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with
desod the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled:
I will do unter their way, and according to their deserts
will I judge them; and th that I am the LORD.

8:1 And it came to pass in the sixth year, in th month, in the
fifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house, and the elders of
Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me.

8:2 Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire: from
the appearance of his loins even downward, fire; and from his loins
even upward, as the appearance of brightness, as the colour 
8:3 And he put forth the form of an hand, and took me by a lock of
mi; and the spirit lifted me up between the earth and the
heaven, and brn the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door
of the inner gate that ward the north; where was the seat of
the image of jealousy, which projealousy.

8:4 And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, to the vision that I saw in the plain.

8:5 Then said he unto me, Son t up thine eyes now the way
toward the north. So I lifted up mine eyesward the north,
and behold northward at the gate of the altar this imausy
in the entry.

8:6 He said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seest  they do?
even the great abominations that the house of Israel committI should go far off from my sanctuary? but turn thee yet again,
and thshalt see greater abominations.

8:7 And he brought me to the door of  and when I looked,
behold a hole in the wall.

8:8 Then said he unto  man, dig now in the wall: and when I
had digged in the wall, behold a And he said unto me, Go in, and behold the wicked abominations
that te.

8:10 So I went in and saw; and behold every form of creeping thinginable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel,
pourtrayed upl round about.

8:11 And there stood before them seventy men of the ans of the
house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah theaphan, with every man his censer in his hand; and a thick cloud of
incp.

8:12 Then said he unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen what the
anche house of Israel do in the dark, every man in the
chambers of his im they say, the LORD seeth us not; the LORD
hath forsaken the earth.

8d also unto me, Turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see
greater abomin they do.

8:14 Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the LORDe
which was toward the north; and, behold, there sat women weeping for8:15 Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? turn
then, and thou shalt see greater abominations than these.

8:16 And he brnto the inner court of the LORD’s house, and,
behold, at the door ofe of the LORD, between the porch and
the altar, were about five and twwith their backs toward the
temple of the LORD, and their faces toward and they
worshipped the sun toward the east.

8:17 Then he said unto hou seen this, O son of man? Is it a
light thing to the house of Judah commit the abominations
which they commit here? for they have filled with violence,
and have returned to provoke me to anger: and, lo, they branch
to their nose.

8:18 Therefore will I also deal in fury: mine not spare,
neither will I have pity: and though they cry in mine ears d
voice, yet will I not hear them.

9:1 He cried also in mine ears witice, saying, Cause them
that have charge over the city to draw near, eman with his
destroying weapon in his hand.

9:2 And, behold, six men the way of the higher gate, which
lieth toward the north, and every maghter weapon in his hand;
and one man among them was clothed with linewriter’s inkhorn
by his side: and they went in, and stood beside thear.

9:3 And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cheruon he was, to the threshold of the house. And he called to the
man cloinen, which had the writer’s inkhorn by his side;
9:4 And the LORD sim, Go through the midst of the city,
through the midst of Jerusalem, ark upon the foreheads of
the men that sigh and that cry for all the as that be done
in the midst thereof.

9:5 And to the others he said inng, Go ye after him through
the city, and smite: let not your eye sparhave ye pity: 9:6
Slay utterly old and young, both maids, and little cnd
women: but come not near any man upon whom is the mark; and begin atuary. Then they began at the ancient men which were before the
house.he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with
the slairth. And they went forth, and slew in the city.

9:8 And it came to pathey were slaying them, and I was left,
that I fell upon my face, and d said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou
destroy all the residue of Israel in thut of thy fury upon
Jerusalem?  9:9 Then said he unto me, The iniquityse of
Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blo city full of perverseness: for they say, The LORD hath
forsaken the ethe LORD seeth not.

9:10 And as for me also, mine eye shall not spareill I have
pity, but I will recompense their way upon their head.

9:1old, the man clothed with linen, which had the inkhorn by
his side, rematter, saying, I have done as thou hast
commanded me.

10:1 Then I lo behold, in the firmament that was above the
head of the cherubims the over them as it were a sapphire
stone, as the appearance of the likenrone.

10:2 And he spake unto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill thine hand with
coals of etween the cherubims, and scatter them over the
city. And he went in i
10:3 Now the cherubims stood on the right side of the house, when thean went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.

10:4 Then the gloryRD went up from the cherub, and stood
over the threshold of the house;ouse was filled with the
cloud, and the court was full of the brightneLORD’s glory.

10:5 And the sound of the cherubims’ wings was hearo the outer
court, as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh.
t came to pass, that when he had commanded the man clothed
with linen,ke fire from between the wheels, from between
the cherubims; then he wd stood beside the wheels.

10:7 And one cherub stretched forth his haeen the
cherubims unto the fire that was between the cherubims, and to and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linen:
who tooent out.

10:8 And there appeared in the cherubims the form of a maner their wings.

10:9 And when I looked, behold the four wheels by the one
wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub: and the of the wheels was as the colour of a beryl stone.

10:10 And as for tances, they four had one likeness, as if
a wheel had been in the midstl.

10:11 When they went, they went upon their four sides; they turnedey went, but to the place whither the head looked they followed
it; th not as they went.

10:12 And their whole body, and their backs, and t, and
their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes round about, evens that they four had.

10:13 As for the wheels, it was cried unto themring, O
wheel.

10:14 And every one had four faces: the first face wasf a
cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third tf a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.

10:15 And the cherubimted up. This is the living creature
that I saw by the river of Chebar.d when the cherubims went, the wheels went by them: and when
the cheru up their wings to mount up from the earth, the
same wheels also turnebeside them.

10:17 When they stood, these stood; and when they were lhese lifted up themselves also: for the spirit of the living creature
.

10:18 Then the glory of the LORD departed from off the threshold of, and stood over the cherubims.

10:19 And the cherubims lifted up thend mounted up from the
earth in my sight: when they went out, the wheee beside
them, and every one stood at the door of the east gate of theouse; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

10:20 T living creature that I saw under the God of Israel
by the river of ChI knew that they were the cherubims.

10:21 Every one had four faces a every one four wings; and
the likeness of the hands of a man was undengs.

10:22 And the likeness of their faces was the same faces which I river of Chebar, their appearances and themselves: they went
every on forward.

11:1 Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto te of the LORD’s house, which looketh eastward: and behold at the
doate five and twenty men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah the
son of Azur, ah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.

11:2 Then said he unto man, these are the men that devise
mischief, and give wicked counsel in 11:3 Which say, It is
not near; let us build houses: this city is thend we be the
flesh.

11:4 Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O.

11:5 And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and said unto me, Speaith the LORD; Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: for I know
the thme into your mind, every one of them.

11:6 Ye have multiplied your sl city, and ye have filled
the streets thereof with the slain.

11:7 Ths saith the Lord GOD; Your slain whom ye have laid
in the midst of it,he flesh, and this city is the caldron:
but I will bring you forth outidst of it.

11:8 Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you,
saith the Lord GOD.

11:9 And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and deliver you
into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.

11:10 Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of
Israel; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

11:11 This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the
fle midst thereof; but I will judge you in the border of
Israel: 11:12 Ad ye shall know that I am the LORD: for ye have not
walked in my statur executed my judgments, but have done
after the manners of the heathe round about you.

11:13 And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that the son of
Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried withice, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant
o 11:14 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,
11:15 Son of mhy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thy
kindred, and all the hoael wholly, are they unto whom the
inhabitants of Jerusalem have said,far from the LORD: unto us
is this land given in possession.

11:16 Thy, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Although I have cast
them far off among then, and although I have scattered them
among the countries, yet will I as a little sanctuary in
the countries where they shall come.

11:17  say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even gather you
from the people,le you out of the countries where ye have
been scattered, and I will ge land of Israel.

11:18 And they shall come thither, and they shall tll the
detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from.

11:19 And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit
w and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and
will give the of flesh: 11:20 That they may walk in my
statutes, and keep mine ordid do them: and they shall be my
people, and I will be their God.

11:2r them whose heart walketh after the heart of their
detestable things  abominations, I will recompense their way
upon their own heads, saithOD.

11:22 Then did the cherubims lift up their wings, and the wheels
m; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

11:23 And of the LORD went up from the midst of the city,
and stood upon the mouh is on the east side of the city.

11:24 Afterwards the spirit took mbrought me in a vision by
the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of tity. So the
vision that I had seen went up from me.

11:25 Then I spaknto them of the captivity all the things that the
LORD had shewed me.
word of the LORD also came unto me, saying, 12:2 Son of man,
thou dwelhe midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes to
see, and see not; tars to hear, and hear not: for they are a
rebellious house.

12:3 Theru son of man, prepare thee stuff for removing, and
remove by day in th; and thou shalt remove from thy place to
another place in their sighte they will consider, though
they be a rebellious house.

12:4 Then shring forth thy stuff by day in their sight, as
stuff for removing: andt go forth at even in their sight, as
they that go forth into captivitDig thou through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby.

12:6sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulders, and carry
it forth in the thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see not
the ground: for I have sr a sign unto the house of Israel.

12:7 And I did so as I was commandght forth my stuff by day,
as stuff for captivity, and in the even I dugh the wall with
mine hand; I brought it forth in the twilight, and Ion my
shoulder in their sight.

12:8 And in the morning came the word ORD unto me, saying,
12:9 Son of man, hath not the house of Israel, thus house,
said unto thee, What doest thou?  12:10 Say thou unto them, 
the Lord GOD; This burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem, and all of Israel that are among them.

12:11 Say, I am your sign: like as I  so shall it be done
unto them: they shall remove and go into captivit And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulder
in the, and shall go forth: they shall dig through the wall
to carry out thehall cover his face, that he see not the
ground with his eyes.

12:13 so will I spread upon him, and he shall be taken in my
snare: and I wiim to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans;
yet shall he not see it, tall die there.

12:14 And I will scatter toward every wind all that arm to
help him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after 15 And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall scatter
them anations, and disperse them in the countries.

12:16 But I will leave ahem from the sword, from the
famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their
abominations among the heathen whither they coey shall know
that I am the LORD.

12:17 Moreover the word of the LORDme, saying, 12:18 Son of
man, eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thith trembling
and with carefulness; 12:19 And say unto the people of thus
saith the Lord GOD of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and of the lanl; They shall eat their bread with carefulness, and drink their
water ishment, that her land may be desolate from all that
is therein, becau violence of all them that dwell therein.

12:20 And the cities that ated shall be laid waste, and the
land shall be desolate; and ye shall  I am the LORD.

12:21 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, of man,
what is that proverb that ye have in the land of Israel, sayin are prolonged, and every vision faileth?  12:23 Tell them
therefore,  the Lord GOD; I will make this proverb to cease,
and they shall no mo as a proverb in Israel; but say unto
them, The days are at hand, and of every vision.

12:24 For there shall be no more any vain vision norng
divination within the house of Israel.

12:25 For I am the LORD: I  and the word that I shall speak
shall come to pass; it shall be no moged: for in your days, O
rebellious house, will I say the word, and wiit, saith the
Lord GOD.

12:26 Again the word of the LORD came to me, :27 Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision
thth is for many days to come, and he prophesieth of the
times that are 
12:28 Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; There shall
nwords be prolonged any more, but the word which I have
spoken shall beh the Lord GOD.

13:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 1 man,
prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say tthem that prophesy out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word of
the LOThus saith the Lord GOD; Woe unto the foolish prophets,
that follow thirit, and have seen nothing!  13:4 O Israel,
thy prophets are like thehe deserts.

13:5 Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up tor
the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the LORD.
y have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, The LORD
saith: and tth not sent them: and they have made others to
hope that they would coword.

13:7 Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken a lation, whereas ye say, The LORD saith it; albeit I have not
spoken?  1fore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have
spoken vanity, and seen fore, behold, I am against you,
saith the Lord GOD.

13:9 And mine han upon the prophets that see vanity, and
that divine lies: they shall nhe assembly of my people,
neither shall they be written in the writing house of Israel,
neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; an know
that I am the Lord GOD.

13:10 Because, even because they have speople, saying,
Peace; and there was no peace; and one built up a wallhers daubed it with untempered morter: 13:11 Say unto them which
daub ntempered morter, that it shall fall: there shall be an
overflowing shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a
stormy wind shall rend it.

13:12 Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said unto you,
Where is the daubing wherewith ye have daubed it?  13:13 Therefore
thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even rend it with a stormy wind in y
fury; and there shall be an overflowing shower in mine anger, and
grnes in my fury to consume it.

13:14 So will I break down the wall thadaubed with
untempered morter, and bring it down to the ground, so thadation thereof shall be discovered, and it shall fall, and ye
shall bein the midst thereof: and ye shall know that I am
the LORD.

13:15 Thuccomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon them
that have daubed it wired morter, and will say unto you, The
wall is no more, neither they t it; 13:16 To wit, the
prophets of Israel which prophesy concerning Jend which see
visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith thOD.

13:17 Likewise, thou son of man, set thy face against the daughtee, which prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy thou
against th, 13:18 And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the women
that sew piall armholes, and make kerchiefs upon the head of
every stature to hun! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, and
will ye save the souls alive unto you?  13:19 And will ye
pollute me among my people for handfulsand for pieces of
bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and tosouls
alive that should not live, by your lying to my people that hear?  13:20 Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against
your erewith ye there hunt the souls to make them fly, and
I will tear themarms, and will let the souls go, even the
souls that ye hunt to make t3:21 Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of
youd they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and ye
shall know the LORD.

13:22 Because with lies ye have made the heart of the rightehom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked,
thald not return from his wicked way, by promising him life:
13:23 Therefll see no more vanity, nor divine divinations:
for I will deliver my pof your hand: and ye shall know that
I am the LORD.

14:1 Then came cehe elders of Israel unto me, and sat before
me.

14:2 And the word of me unto me, saying, 14:3 Son of man,
these men have set up their idols heart, and put the
stumblingblock of their iniquity before their face be
enquired of at all by them?  14:4 Therefore speak unto them, and sm, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Every man of the house of Israel
that sett idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock
of his iniquity beace, and cometh to the prophet; I the LORD
will answer him that cometh to the multitude of his idols;
14:5 That I may take the house of Israr own heart, because
they are all estranged from me through their idolherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Repent yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces
from all your ab.

14:7 For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that
 in Israel, which separateth himself from me, and setteth up
his idolsart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity
before his face, ato a prophet to enquire of him concerning
me; I the LORD will answer hlf: 14:8 And I will set my face
against that man, and will make him a  a proverb, and I will
cut him off from the midst of my people; and ye that I am
the LORD.

14:9 And if the prophet be deceived when he haththing, I the
LORD have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out mn
him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.

14:10hall bear the punishment of their iniquity: the
punishment of the propbe even as the punishment of him that
seeketh unto him; 14:11 That theIsrael may go no more astray
from me, neither be polluted any more wit transgressions;
but that they may be my people, and I may be their Gohe Lord
GOD.

14:12 The word of the LORD came again to me, saying, 14:an,
when the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously, then wtch out mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the bread
therel send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast
from it: 14:14 Te three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in
it, they should deliver bu souls by their righteousness,
saith the Lord GOD.

14:15 If I cause nts to pass through the land, and they
spoil it, so that it be desolateman may pass through because
of the beasts: 14:16 Though these three mit, as I live,
saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither sons norers;
they only shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate.

14 bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go through
the land; sot off man and beast from it: 14:18 Though these
three men were in it, , saith the Lord GOD, they shall
deliver neither sons nor daughters, bly shall be delivered
themselves.

14:19 Or if I send a pestilence intnd, and pour out my fury
upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and 0 Though Noah,
Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, saith the Lord Ghall
deliver neither son nor daughter; they shall but deliver their ow their righteousness.

14:21 For thus saith the Lord GOD; How much morend my four
sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, e
noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast?, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be
brought forth, and daughters: behold, they shall come forth
unto you, and ye shall sy and their doings: and ye shall be
comforted concerning the evil thatought upon Jerusalem, even
concerning all that I have brought upon it.nd they shall comfort you, when ye see their ways and their
doings: an know that I have not done without cause all that
I have done in it, s Lord GOD.

15:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 15:2 S,
what is the vine tree more than any tree, or than a branch which is
trees of the forest?  15:3 Shall wood be taken thereof to do
any work?men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?
15:4 Behold, it is cae fire for fuel; the fire devoureth
both the ends of it, and the midst burned. Is it meet for any
work?  15:5 Behold, when it was whole, it  for no work: how
much less shall it be meet yet for any work, when thth
devoured it, and it is burned?  15:6 Therefore thus saith the Lord
he vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have
given to the fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.

15:7 And I will se against them; they shall go out from one
fire, and another fire shallem; and ye shall know that I am
the LORD, when I set my face against t8 And I will make the land desolate, because they have committed a
treth the Lord GOD.

16:1 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, sayingof man,
cause Jerusalem to know her abominations, 16:3 And say, Thus sord GOD unto Jerusalem; Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land of
C father was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite.

16:4 And as for thy, in the day thou wast born thy navel was
not cut, neither wast thou ater to supple thee; thou wast
not salted at all, nor swaddled at all.e eye pitied thee, to do any of these unto thee, to have
compassion upbut thou wast cast out in the open field, to the
lothing of thy personay that thou wast born.

16:6 And when I passed by thee, and saw thee n thine own
blood, I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live;id
unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live.

16:7 I have caused thiply as the bud of the field, and thou
hast increased and waxen great,art come to excellent
ornaments: thy breasts are fashioned, and thine own, whereas
thou wast naked and bare.

16:8 Now when I passed by theed upon thee, behold, thy time
was the time of love; and I spread my skhee, and covered thy
nakedness: yea, I sware unto thee, and entered inant with
thee, saith the Lord GOD, and thou becamest mine.

16:9 Then hee with water; yea, I throughly washed away thy
blood from thee, and  thee with oil.

16:10 I clothed thee also with broidered work, and shth
badgers’ skin, and I girded thee about with fine linen, and I covwith silk.

16:11 I decked thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelethy
hands, and a chain on thy neck.

16:12 And I put a jewel on thy fod earrings in thine ears,
and a beautiful crown upon thine head.

16:1t thou decked with gold and silver; and thy raiment was
of fine linen,, and broidered work; thou didst eat fine
flour, and honey, and oil: at exceeding beautiful, and thou
didst prosper into a kingdom.

16:14 Anown went forth among the heathen for thy beauty: for
it was perfect t comeliness, which I had put upon thee, saith
the Lord GOD.

16:15 Butst trust in thine own beauty, and playedst the
harlot because of thy rpouredst out thy fornications on
every one that passed by; his it was.d of thy garments thou didst take, and deckedst thy high
places with durs, and playedst the harlot thereupon: the
like things shall not come shall it be so.

16:17 Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my goly
silver, which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images of men, commit whoredom with them, 16:18 And tookest thy broidered
garments, dst them: and thou hast set mine oil and mine
incense before them.

16at also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey,
wherewith I, thou hast even set it before them for a sweet
savour: and thus it wah the Lord GOD.

16:20 Moreover thou hast taken thy sons and thy daugh thou
hast borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed unto them to d. Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter, 16:21 That thou
hast slainren, and delivered them to cause them to pass
through the fire for thend in all thine abominations and
thy whoredoms thou hast not remembere of thy youth, when
thou wast naked and bare, and wast polluted in thy:23 And it came to pass after all thy wickedness, (woe, woe unto
thee!he LORD GOD;) 16:24 That thou hast also built unto thee
an eminent plast made thee an high place in every street.

16:25 Thou hast built thye at every head of the way, and
hast made thy beauty to be abhorred, aened thy feet to every
one that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredomThou hast also committed fornication with the Egyptians thy
neighboursf flesh; and hast increased thy whoredoms, to
provoke me to anger.

16 therefore I have stretched out my hand over thee, and
have diminishednary food, and delivered thee unto the will
of them that hate thee, thrs of the Philistines, which are
ashamed of thy lewd way.

16:28 Thou d the whore also with the Assyrians, because thou
wast unsatiable; yea played the harlot with them, and yet
couldest not be satisfied.

16:2ast moreover multiplied thy fornication in the land of
Canaan unto Chayet thou wast not satisfied therewith.

16:30 How weak is thine heart, LORD GOD, seeing thou doest
all these things, the work of an imperiouoman; 16:31 In
that thou buildest thine eminent place in the head of end
makest thine high place in every street; and hast not been as an
haat thou scornest hire; 16:32 But as a wife that
committeth adultery, wth strangers instead of her husband!
16:33 They give gifts to all whoru givest thy gifts to all
thy lovers, and hirest them, that they may chee on every
side for thy whoredom.

16:34 And the contrary is in thee women in thy whoredoms,
whereas none followeth thee to commit whoredo that thou
givest a reward, and no reward is given unto thee, therefor
contrary.

16:35 Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD: 16:3th
the Lord GOD; Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakednered through thy whoredoms with thy lovers, and with all the
idols of ations, and by the blood of thy children, which
thou didst give unto t Behold, therefore I will gather all
thy lovers, with whom thou hast tre, and all them that thou
hast loved, with all them that thou hast hal even gather
them round about against thee, and will discover thy nako
them, that they may see all thy nakedness.

16:38 And I will judge tmen that break wedlock and shed
blood are judged; and I will give theeury and jealousy.

16:39 And I will also give thee into their hand, anall throw
down thine eminent place, and shall break down thy high plachall strip thee also of thy clothes, and shall take thy fair jewels,
ahee naked and bare.

16:40 They shall also bring up a company against hey shall
stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their s41 And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and execute
judgments un the sight of many women: and I will cause thee
to cease from playingt, and thou also shalt give no hire any
more.

16:42 So will I make myd thee to rest, and my jealousy
shall depart from thee, and I will be  will be no more
angry.

16:43 Because thou hast not remembered the dayouth, but hast
fretted me in all these things; behold, therefore I alecompense thy way upon thine head, saith the Lord GOD: and thou shalt
 this lewdness above all thine abominations.

16:44 Behold, every one proverbs shall use this proverb
against thee, saying, As is the motherher daughter.

16:45 Thou art thy mother’s daughter, that lotheth heand her
children; and thou art the sister of thy sisters, which lothedbands and their children: your mother was an Hittite, and your
father .

16:46 And thine elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters thatthy left hand: and thy younger sister, that dwelleth at thy
right hand and her daughters.

16:47 Yet hast thou not walked after their ways, er their
abominations: but, as if that were a very little thing, thou 
corrupted more than they in all thy ways.

16:48 As I live, saith the Sodom thy sister hath not done,
she nor her daughters, as thou hast d and thy daughters.

16:49 Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sisteride,
fulness of bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in her neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.

16:50 And haughty, and committed abomination before me:
therefore I took them aaw good.

16:51 Neither hath Samaria committed half of thy sins; but tultiplied thine abominations more than they, and hast justified thy
sil thine abominations which thou hast done.

16:52 Thou also, which hasy sisters, bear thine own shame
for thy sins that thou hast committed ominable than they: they
are more righteous than thou: yea, be thou colso, and bear
thy shame, in that thou hast justified thy sisters.

16:shall bring again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom
and her daug the captivity of Samaria and her daughters,
then will I bring again tty of thy captives in the midst of
them: 16:54 That thou mayest bear thame, and mayest be
confounded in all that thou hast done, in that thomfort unto
them.

16:55 When thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shato their
former estate, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to r estate, then thou and thy daughters shall return to your former
esta For thy sister Sodom was not mentioned by thy mouth in the day
of thy:57 Before thy wickedness was discovered, as at the
time of thy reproa daughters of Syria, and all that are round
about her, the daughters oistines, which despise thee round
about.

16:58 Thou hast borne thy le thine abominations, saith the
LORD.

16:59 For thus saith the Lord GOeven deal with thee as thou
hast done, which hast despised the oath inthe covenant.

16:60 Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with theays
of thy youth, and I will establish unto thee an everlasting covenaThen thou shalt remember thy ways, and be ashamed, when thou
shalt recy sisters, thine elder and thy younger: and I will
give them unto theehters, but not by thy covenant.

16:62 And I will establish my covenane; and thou shalt know
that I am the LORD: 16:63 That thou mayest remebe
confounded, and never open thy mouth any more because of thy shame,m pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done, saith the
Lord GODd the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 17:2 Son of man,
put fort, and speak a parable unto the house of Israel; 17:3
And say, Thus saiGOD; A great eagle with great wings,
longwinged, full of feathers, whiers colours, came unto
Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cede cropped off
the top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land o he
set it in a city of merchants.

17:5 He took also of the seed of tnd planted it in a
fruitful field; he placed it by great waters, and swillow
tree.

17:6 And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low staranches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under him: so
it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.

17:7 There was also another great eagle with great wings and many
feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, and
shot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by the
furrows of htion.

17:8 It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it migorth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a
goodly:9 Say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Shall it prosper? shall he not
proots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that it
wither? it shall all the leaves of her spring, even without
great power or many peopleit up by the roots thereof.

17:10 Yea, behold, being planted, shall i shall it not
utterly wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall the
furrows where it grew.

17:11 Moreover the word of the LORD came saying, 17:12 Say
now to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these n?  tell
them, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hthe king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him to
Ba13 And hath taken of the king’s seed, and made a covenant
with him, ath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mighty
of the land: 1the kingdom might be base, that it might not
lift itself up, but that  of his covenant it might stand.

17:15 But he rebelled against him inis ambassadors into
Egypt, that they might give him horses and much pell he
prosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he brecovenant, and be delivered?  17:16 As I live, saith the Lord GOD,
surelace where the king dwelleth that made him king, whose
oath he despisese covenant he brake, even with him in the
midst of Babylon he shall d Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company
make fore war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, to
cut off many persoSeeing he despised the oath by breaking
the covenant, when, lo, he had hand, and hath done all these
things, he shall not escape.

17:19 Thes saith the Lord GOD; As I live, surely mine oath
that he hath despise covenant that he hath broken, even it
will I recompense upon his own 20 And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my
snarill bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him there
for his trespa hath trespassed against me.

17:21 And all his fugitives with all hisall fall by the
sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward  and
ye shall know that I the LORD have spoken it.

17:22 Thus saith tD; I will also take of the highest branch
of the high cedar, and will ill crop off from the top of
his young twigs a tender one, and will pln an high mountain
and eminent: 17:23 In the mountain of the height of will I
plant it: and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, anddly cedar: and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the
shabranches thereof shall they dwell.

17:24 And all the trees of the fie know that I the LORD have
brought down the high tree, have exalted th have dried up
the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish:
have spoken and have done it.

18:1 The word of the LORD came unto meing, 18:2 What mean
ye, that ye use this proverb concerning the land oying,
The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children’s teeth a edge?  18:3 As I live, saith the Lord GOD, ye shall not have
occasiono use this proverb in Israel.

18:4 Behold, all souls are mine; as the father, so also
the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, ie.

18:5 But if a man be just, and do that which is lawful and right, th not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his eyes
to ththe house of Israel, neither hath defiled his
neighbours wife, neither near to a menstruous woman, 18:7
And hath not oppressed any, but hatho the debtor his
pledge, hath spoiled none by violence, hath given hishe
hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment; 18:8 He that hatn forth upon usury, neither hath taken any increase, that hath
withdrand from iniquity, hath executed true judgment between
man and man, 18:ed in my statutes, and hath kept my
judgments, to deal truly; he is jull surely live, saith the
Lord GOD.

18:10 If he beget a son that is a shedder of blood, and that
doeth the like to any one of these things,that doeth not
any of those duties, but even hath eaten upon the mountfiled his neighbours wife, 18:12 Hath oppressed the poor and needy,
ha by violence, hath not restored the pledge, and hath
lifted up his eyedols, hath committed abomination, 18:13
Hath given forth upon usury, aen increase: shall he then
live? he shall not live: he hath done all tations; he shall
surely die; his blood shall be upon him.

18:14 Now, beget a son, that seeth all his father’s sins
which he hath done, anth, and doeth not such like, 18:15
That hath not eaten upon the mountar hath lifted up his
eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, hath nohis
neighbours wife, 18:16 Neither hath oppressed any, hath not
withhoedge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hath
given his bread to thand hath covered the naked with a
garment, 18:17 That hath taken off hom the poor, that hath
not received usury nor increase, hath executed nts, hath
walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of e shall surely live.

18:18 As for his father, because he cruelly oppr, spoiled his
brother by violence, and did that which is not good amonple,
lo, even he shall die in his iniquity.

18:19 Yet say ye, Why? doson bear the iniquity of the
father?  When the son hath done that whicl and right, and
hath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shalive.

18:20 The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The son shall not bequity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of
therighteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the
wickedness od shall be upon him.

18:21 But if the wicked will turn from all his se hath
committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawfut, he shall surely live, he shall not die.

18:22 All his transgressiohath committed, they shall not be
mentioned unto him: in his righteoushe hath done he shall
live.

18:23 Have I any pleasure at all that theuld die? saith the
Lord GOD: and not that he should return from his wave?
18:24 But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, teth iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations that
the wi doeth, shall he live? All his righteousness that he
hath done shall nioned: in his trespass that he hath
trespassed, and in his sin that hened, in them shall he die.

18:25 Yet ye say, The way of the LORD is n Hear now, O house
of Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways u8:26 When
a righteous man turneth away from his righteousness, and comquity, and dieth in them; for his iniquity that he hath done shall
he 27 Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness that
heitted, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall
save his sou8:28 Because he considereth, and turneth away from all his
transgressie hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall
not die.

18:29 Yet suse of Israel, The way of the LORD is not equal.
O house of Israel, arays equal? are not your ways unequal?
18:30 Therefore I will judge youf Israel, every one
according to his ways, saith the Lord GOD. Repent,ourselves
from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your 1 Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby ye have
transgremake you a new heart and a new spirit: for why will
ye die, O house of8:32 For I have no pleasure in the death
of him that dieth, saith the  wherefore turn yourselves, and
live ye.

19:1 Moreover take thou up aon for the princes of Israel,
19:2 And say, What is thy mother? A lionay down among lions,
she nourished her whelps among young lions.

19:3rought up one of her whelps: it became a young lion, and
it learned to prey; it devoured men.

19:4 The nations also heard of him; he was tar pit, and
they brought him with chains unto the land of Egypt.

19:5 he saw that she had waited, and her hope was lost, then
she took anoth whelps, and made him a young lion.

19:6 And he went up and down amon, he became a young lion,
and learned to catch the prey, and devoured  And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid waste their
cities; a was desolate, and the fulness thereof, by the
noise of his roaring.

the nations set against him on every side from the
provinces, and spre over him: he was taken in their pit.

19:9 And they put him in ward iand brought him to the king
of Babylon: they brought him into holds, tce should no more
be heard upon the mountains of Israel.

19:10 Thy moke a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters:
she was fruitful and fuches by reason of many waters.

19:11 And she had strong rods for the of them that bare rule,
and her stature was exalted among the thick brshe appeared
in her height with the multitude of her branches.

19:12 s plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground,
and the east wi her fruit: her strong rods were broken and
withered; the fire consume13 And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty
grou And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, which hath
devoured he that she hath no strong rod to be a sceptre to
rule. This is a lament shall be for a lamentation.

20:1 And it came to pass in the seventh e fifth month, the
tenth day of the month, that certain of the elders l came to
enquire of the LORD, and sat before me.

20:2 Then came the  LORD unto me, saying, 20:3 Son of man,
speak unto the elders of Israe unto them, Thus saith the
Lord GOD; Are ye come to enquire of me? As th the Lord GOD,
I will not be enquired of by you.

20:4 Wilt thou judn of man, wilt thou judge them? cause
them to know the abominations ofers: 20:5 And say unto
them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when srael, and
lifted up mine hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, anelf known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up mine
hand usaying, I am the LORD your God; 20:6 In the day that I
lifted up mine hem, to bring them forth of the land of
Egypt into a land that I had ethem, flowing with milk and
honey, which is the glory of all lands: 20id I unto them,
Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes, at
yourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

20:8 Buelled against me, and would not hearken unto me: they
did not every ma the abominations of their eyes, neither
did they forsake the idols ofn I said, I will pour out my
fury upon them, to accomplish my anger ag in the midst of
the land of Egypt.

20:9 But I wrought for my name’t it should not be polluted
before the heathen, among whom they were, ight I made myself
known unto them, in bringing them forth out of the pt.

20:10 Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypght them into the wilderness.

20:11 And I gave them my statutes, and  my judgments, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them.

20:12 Mso I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me
and them, that thew that I am the LORD that sanctify them.

20:13 But the house of Israeagainst me in the wilderness:
they walked not in my statutes, and theysed my judgments, which
if a man do, he shall even live in them; and mthey greatly
polluted: then I said, I would pour out my fury upon themlderness, to consume them.

20:14 But I wrought for my name’s sake, uld not be polluted
before the heathen, in whose sight I brought them  Yet also I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilderness, that I
woulg them into the land which I had given them, flowing
with milk and hons the glory of all lands; 20:16 Because
they despised my judgments, anot in my statutes, but
polluted my sabbaths: for their heart went afteols.

20:17 Nevertheless mine eye spared them from destroying them, ne make an end of them in the wilderness.

20:18 But I said unto their c the wilderness, Walk ye not in
the statutes of your fathers, neither eir judgments, nor
defile yourselves with their idols: 20:19 I am the God; walk
in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them; 20:20 An sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that ye may
knam the LORD your God.

20:21 Notwithstanding the children rebelled agahey walked
not in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them, wan do, he shall even live in them; they polluted my sabbaths: then I
sould pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my anger
against them irness.

20:22 Nevertheless I withdrew mine hand, and wrought for my nae, that it should not be polluted in the sight of the heathen, in
whosrought them forth.

20:23 I lifted up mine hand unto them also in the  that I
would scatter them among the heathen, and disperse them througries; 20:24 Because they had not executed my judgments, but had
despisutes, and had polluted my sabbaths, and their eyes
were after their faols.

20:25 Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were not good, an whereby they should not live; 20:26 And I polluted them in
their own hat they caused to pass through the fire all that
openeth the womb, thmake them desolate, to the end that
they might know that I am the LORDherefore, son of man, speak unto the house of Israel, and say
unto theth the Lord GOD; Yet in this your fathers have
blasphemed me, in that ommitted a trespass against me.

20:28 For when I had brought them int, for the which I
lifted up mine hand to give it to them, then they sah hill,
and all the thick trees, and they offered there their sacrific they presented the provocation of their offering: there also
they madtheir sweet savour, and poured out there their drink
offerings.

20:29id unto them, What is the high place whereunto ye go?
And the name whealled Bamah unto this day.

20:30 Wherefore say unto the house of Israaith the Lord GOD;
Are ye polluted after the manner of your fathers? ae
whoredom after their abominations?  20:31 For when ye offer your
gif make your sons to pass through the fire, ye pollute
yourselves with als, even unto this day: and shall I be
enquired of by you, O house of I live, saith the Lord GOD,
I will not be enquired of by you.

20:32 Ach cometh into your mind shall not be at all, that
ye say, We will be then, as the families of the countries,
to serve wood and stone.

20:3, saith the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand, and
with a stretched nd with fury poured out, will I rule over
you: 20:34 And I will bring m the people, and will gather
you out of the countries wherein ye are with a mighty hand,
and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured35 And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, and
there wd with you face to face.

20:36 Like as I pleaded with your fathers inness of the
land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOd I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you
into thhe covenant: 20:38 And I will purge out from among
you the rebels, and transgress against me: I will bring them
forth out of the country wheourn, and they shall not enter
into the land of Israel: and ye shall k am the LORD.

20:39 As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lor,
serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter also, if ye will not
heame: but pollute ye my holy name no more with your gifts,
and with your:40 For in mine holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of
Israel Lord GOD, there shall all the house of Israel, all
of them in the lan there will I accept them, and there
will I require your offerings, anfruits of your oblations,
with all your holy things.

20:41 I will accth your sweet savour, when I bring you out
from the people, and gather the countries wherein ye have
been scattered; and I will be sanctifiefore the heathen.

20:42 And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I  you
into the land of Israel, into the country for the which I lifted nd to give it to your fathers.

20:43 And there shall ye remember yourall your doings,
wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall lothe your your
own sight for all your evils that ye have committed.

20:44 And w that I am the LORD when I have wrought with
you for my name’s sakerding to your wicked ways, nor
according to your corrupt doings, O ye srael, saith the Lord
GOD.

20:45 Moreover the word of the LORD came uing, 20:46 Son of
man, set thy face toward the south, and drop thy wore
south, and prophesy against the forest of the south field; 20:47 Andforest of the south, Hear the word of the LORD; Thus saith
the Lord GOBehold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall
devour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree: the flaming flame
shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall
be burned therein.

20:48 And all flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it: it
sall not be quenched.

20:49 Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! they say of me, h he not speak
parables?  21:1 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 21:2
Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop thy word toward
the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel, 21:3 And say
to the land of Israel, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I am against thee,
and will draw forth my sword out of his sheath, and will cut off from
thee the righteous and the wicked.

21:4 Seeing then that I will cut off from thee the righteous and the
wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of his sheath against
all flesh from the south to the north: 21:5 That all flesh may know
that I the LORD have drawn forth my sword out of his sheath: it shall
not return any more.

21:6 Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of thy loins;
and with bitterness sigh before their eyes.

21:7 And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore sighest thou?
that thou shalt answer, For the tidings; because it cometh: and every
heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit
shall faint, and all knees shall be weak as water: behold, it cometh,
and shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord GOD.

21:8 Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 21:9 Son of man,
prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD; Say, A sword, a sword is
sharpened, and also furbished: 21:10 It is sharpened to make a sore
slaughter; it is furbished that it may glitter: should we then make
mirth? it contemneth the rod of my son, as every tree.

21:11 And he hath given it to be furbished, that it may be handled:
this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, to give it into the hand
of the slayer.

21:12 Cry and howl, son of man: for it shall be upon my people, it
shall be upon all the princes of Israel: terrors by reason of the
sword shall be upon my people: smite therefore upon thy thigh.

21:13 Because it is a trial, and what if the sword contemn even the
rod?  it shall be no more, saith the Lord GOD.

21:14 Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite thine hands
together. and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of
the slain: it is the sword of the great men that are slain, which
entereth into their privy chambers.

21:15 I have set the point of the sword against all their gates, that
their heart may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: ah! it is made
bright, it is wrapped up for the slaughter.

21:16 Go thee one way or other, either on the right hand, or on the
left, whithersoever thy face is set.

21:17 I will also smite mine hands together, and I will cause my fury
to rest: I the LORD have said it.

21:18 The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying, 21:19 Also,
thou son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the king of
Babylon may come: both twahall come forth out of one land: and
choose thou a place, choose it atof the way to the city.

21:20 Appoint a way, that the sword may come of the
Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the defenced.

21:21 For t Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the
head of the two ways,nation: he made his arrows bright, he
consulted with images, he lookeder.

21:22 At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to appo, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice
with shoutiint battering rams against the gates, to cast a
mount, and to build a  And it shall be unto them as a false divination in their sight,
to the sworn oaths: but he will call to remembrance the
iniquity, that theyen.

21:24 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have made youo be remembered, in that your transgressions are discovered,
so that i doings your sins do appear; because, I say, that
ye are come to rememshall be taken with the hand.

21:25 And thou, profane wicked prince ohose day is come,
when iniquity shall have an end, 21:26 Thus saith th; Remove
the diadem, and take off the crown: this shall not be the samim that is low, and abase him that is high.

21:27 I will overturn, ovrturn, it: and it shall be no
more, until he come whose right it is; aive it him.

21:28 And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith OD
concerning the Ammonites, and concerning their reproach; even say
tord, the sword is drawn: for the slaughter it is
furbished, to consumef the glittering: 21:29 Whiles they see
vanity unto thee, whiles they e unto thee, to bring thee
upon the necks of them that are slain, of t whose day is
come, when their iniquity shall have an end.

21:30 Shalit to return into his sheath? I will judge thee in
the place where thocreated, in the land of thy nativity.

21:31 And I will pour out mine  upon thee, I will blow
against thee in the fire of my wrath, and delinto the hand
of brutish men, and skilful to destroy.

21:32 Thou shaltel to the fire; thy blood shall be in the
midst of the land; thou shalmore remembered: for I the LORD
have spoken it.

22:1 Moreover the worRD came unto me, saying, 22:2 Now,
thou son of man, wilt thou judge, whe bloody city?
yea, thou shalt shew her all her abominations.

22:3 Ts saith the Lord GOD, The city sheddeth blood
in the midst of it, thatmay come, and maketh idols against
herself to defile herself.

22:4 Thme guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hast
defiled thyself ils which thou hast made; and thou hast
caused thy days to draw near, ae even unto thy years:
therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the nd a mocking
to all countries.

22:5 Those that be near, and those thaom thee, shall mock
thee, which art infamous and much vexed.

22:6 Behrinces of Israel, every one were in thee to their
power to shed blood.hee have they set light by father and mother: in the midst of
thee havlt by oppression with the stranger: in thee have
they vexed the fathere widow.

22:8 Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast profaned s.

22:9 In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood: and in thee ton the mountains: in the midst of thee they commit lewdness.

22:10 Inthey discovered their fathers’ nakedness: in thee
have they humbled  set apart for pollution.

22:11 And one hath committed abomination wighbours wife;
and another hath lewdly defiled his daughter in law; andn
thee hath humbled his sister, his father’s daughter.

22:12 In they taken gifts to shed blood; thou hast taken
usury and increase, and treedily gained of thy neighbours by
extortion, and hast forgotten me, ord GOD.

22:13 Behold, therefore I have smitten mine hand at thy dish
which thou hast made, and at thy blood which hath been in the midst o:14 Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in the
days ll deal with thee? I the LORD have spoken it, and will
do it.

22:15 Ascatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee in
the countries, anume thy filthiness out of thee.

22:16 And thou shalt take thine inherhyself in the sight of
the heathen, and thou shalt know that I am the 7 And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 22:18 Son of man,
therael is to me become dross: all they are brass, and
tin, and iron, andthe midst of the furnace; they are even
the dross of silver.

22:19 Ths saith the Lord GOD; Because ye are all become
dross, behold, therefogather you into the midst of
Jerusalem.

22:20 As they gather silver,  and iron, and lead, and tin,
into the midst of the furnace, to blow ton it, to melt it;
so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury, leave
you there, and melt you.

22:21 Yea, I will gather you, and blowin the fire of my
wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst therof.

lver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye be
melted in tereof; and ye shall know that I the LORD have
poured out my fury upon  And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 22:24 Son of man,
say Thou art the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon
in the day of 

22:25 There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, lig lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls; they have
taken thand precious things; they have made her many widows
in the midst there Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy
things:ve put no difference between the holy and profane,
neither have they serence between the unclean and the clean,
and have hid their eyes froms, and I am profaned among
them.

22:27 Her princes in the midst there wolves ravening the
prey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get gain.

22:28 And her prophets have daubed them with untempered morteranity, and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord GOD,
wD hath not spoken.

22:29 The people of the land have used oppression,sed
robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy: yea, they have oppressnger wrongfully.

22:30 And I sought for a man among them, that shoulde
hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not: but I found none.

22:31 Therefore have I poured out mine indignatim; I have
consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have ed upon their heads, saith the Lord GOD.

23:1 The word of the LORD cato me, saying, 23:2 Son of man,
there were two women, the daughters of: 23:3 And they
committed whoredoms in Egypt; they committed whoredomswere their breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teats of
their 
23:4 And the names of them were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her
sihey were mine, and they bare sons and daughters. Thus
were their namesis Aholah, and Jerusalem Aholibah.

23:5 And Aholah played the harlot s mine; and she doted on
her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbours,  were clothed
with blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable yorsemen riding upon horses.

23:7 Thus she committed her whoredoms withall them that
were the chosen men of Assyria, and with all on whom sheh
all their idols she defiled herself.

23:8 Neither left she her whorht from Egypt: for in her
youth they lay with her, and they bruised thof her
virginity, and poured their whoredom upon her.

23:9 Wherefore ivered her into the hand of her lovers, into
the hand of the Assyriansm she doted.

23:10 These discovered her nakedness: they took her sonsghters, and slew her with the sword: and she became famous among
womenhad executed judgment upon her.

23:11 And when her sister Aholibah sa was more corrupt in
her inordinate love than she, and in her whoredom her
sister in her whoredoms.

23:12 She doted upon the Assyrians her captains and rulers
clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horsthem
desirable young men.

23:13 Then I saw that she was defiled, thatboth one way,
23:14 And that she increased her whoredoms: for when sheurtrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans pourtrayed with
ve:15 Girded with girdles upon their loins, exceeding in
dyed attire upods, all of them princes to look to, after
the manner of the Babyloniana, the land of their nativity:
23:16 And as soon as she saw them with  doted upon them,
and sent messengers unto them into Chaldea.

23:17 Alonians came to her into the bed of love, and they
defiled her with thom, and she was polluted with them, and
her mind was alienated from th So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered her nakedness:
then m alienated from her, like as my mind was alienated
from her sister.

2 multiplied her whoredoms, in calling to remembrance the
days of her yin she had played the harlot in the land of
Egypt.

23:20 For she doter paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh
of asses, and whose issue is ue of horses.

23:21 Thus thou calledst to remembrance the lewdness of in
bruising thy teats by the Egyptians for the paps of thy youth.

23re, O Aholibah, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will
raise up thy lst thee, from whom thy mind is alienated, and
I will bring them againsevery side; 23:23 The Babylonians,
and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Sa, and all the Assyrians
with them: all of them desirable young men, c rulers, great
lords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses.

23y shall come against thee with chariots, wagons, and
wheels, and with  of people, which shall set against thee
buckler and shield and helmetut: and I will set judgment
before them, and they shall judge thee acceir judgments.

23:25 And I will set my jealousy against thee, and thel
furiously with thee: they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; ant shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons and thy
daughtersesidue shall be devoured by the fire.

23:26 They shall also strip they clothes, and take away thy
fair jewels.

23:27 Thus will I make thy cease from thee, and thy
whoredom brought from the land of Egypt: so talt not lift
up thine eyes unto them, nor remember Egypt any more.

23s saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will deliver thee into
the hand of thehatest, into the hand of them from whom thy
mind is alienated: 23:29 All deal with thee hatefully, and
shall take away all thy labour, and sthee naked and bare:
and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be disco thy
lewdness and thy whoredoms.

23:30 I will do these things unto the thou hast gone a
whoring after the heathen, and because thou art poltheir
idols.

23:31 Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister; therefogive
her cup into thine hand.

23:32 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou sha thy sister’s cup
deep and large: thou shalt be laughed to scorn andon; it
containeth much.

23:33 Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness ae cup
of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samarhou shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt break
the sherand pluck off thine own breasts: for I have spoken
it, saith the Lord Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast forgotten
me, andhind thy back, therefore bear thou also thy lewdness
and thy whoredoms LORD said moreover unto me; Son of man, wilt thou judge
Aholah and Aha, declare unto them their abominations; 23:37
That they have committe and blood is in their hands, and
with their idols have they committedand have also caused
their sons, whom they bare unto me, to pass for t the fire,
to devour them.

23:38 Moreover this they have done unto mee defiled my
sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.when they had slain their children to their idols, then they
came the nto my sanctuary to profane it; and, lo, thus have
they done in the mi house.

23:40 And furthermore, that ye have sent for men to come fromwhom a messenger was sent; and, lo, they came: for whom thou
didst waspaintedst thy eyes, and deckedst thyself with
ornaments, 23:41 And satstately bed, and a table prepared
before it, whereupon thou hast set mnd mine oil.

23:42 And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with th
the men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wildernessbracelets upon their hands, and beautiful crowns upon their
heads.

23d I unto her that was old in adulteries, Will they now
commit whoredom, and she with them?  23:44 Yet they went in
unto her, as they go in uthat playeth the harlot: so went
they in unto Aholah and unto Aholibahwomen.

23:45 And the righteous men, they shall judge them after the mlteresses, and after the manner of women that shed blood; because
theyresses, and blood is in their hands.

23:46 For thus saith the Lord GOring up a company upon
them, and will give them to be removed and spoi7 And the company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them
withds; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and
burn up their  fire.

23:48 Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, than may be taught not to do after your lewdness.

23:49 And they shall rr lewdness upon you, and ye shall
bear the sins of your idols: and ye  that I am the Lord GOD.

24:1 Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of
the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 24:2 Son of man,
write thee the name of the day, even of this same day: the king of
Babylon set himself against Jerusalem this same day.

24:3 And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and say unto them,
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Set on a pot, set it on, and also po
into it: 24:4 Gather the pieces thereof into it, even every good
piecigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.

24:5 Take the che flock, and burn also the bones under it,
and make it boil well, andm seethe the bones of it therein.

24:6 Wherefore thus saith the Lord o the bloody city, to the
pot whose scum is therein, and whose scum isout of it! bring
it out piece by piece; let no lot fall upon it.

24:7blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the top of
a rock; she pnot upon the ground, to cover it with dust; 24:8
That it might cause f up to take vengeance; I have set her
blood upon the top of a rock, thld not be covered.

24:9 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to thety! I will
even make the pile for fire great.

24:10 Heap on wood, kinre, consume the flesh, and spice it
well, and let the bones be burned.en set it empty upon the coals thereof, that the brass of it
may be hoburn, and that the filthiness of it may be molten
in it, that the scumy be consumed.

24:12 She hath wearied herself with lies, and her greant not
forth out of her: her scum shall be in the fire.

24:13 In thy s is lewdness: because I have purged thee, and
thou wast not purged, tnot be purged from thy filthiness any
more, till I have caused my furypon thee.

24:14 I the LORD have spoken it: it shall come to pass, andit; I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent;
a and according to thy doings, shall they judge
thee, saith the Lord GOAlso the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 24:16 Son of
man, behoaway from thee the desire of thine eyes with a
stroke: yet neither shaurn nor weep, neither shall thy tears
run down.

24:17 Forbear to cry,ourning for the dead, bind the tire of
thine head upon thee, and put os upon thy feet, and cover
not thy lips, and eat not the bread of men. I spake unto the people in the morning: and at even my wife
died; andhe morning as I was commanded.

24:19 And the people said unto me, Wil tell us what these
things are to us, that thou doest so?  24:20 Then  them, The
word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 24:21 Speak unto thesrael, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will profane my sanctuary,
tncy of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that
which your souand your sons and your daughters whom ye have
left shall fall by the s2 And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not cover your lips,
nor ea of men.

24:23 And your tires shall be upon your heads, and your shoer feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep; but ye shall pine away for
your iand mourn one toward another.

24:24 Thus Ezekiel is unto you a sign: to all that he hath
done shall ye do: and when this cometh, ye shall kam the
Lord GOD.

24:25 Also, thou son of man, shall it not be in the  take
from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of , and that whereupon they set their minds, their sons and their
daught26 That he that escapeth in that day shall come unto
thee, to cause th it with thine ears?  24:27 In that day
shall thy mouth be opened to hs escaped, and thou shalt
speak, and be no more dumb: and thou shalt bto them; and
they shall know that I am the LORD.

25:1 The word of the again unto me, saying, 25:2 Son of man,
set thy face against the Ammo prophesy against them; 25:3
And say unto the Ammonites, Hear the word GOD; Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sahen it
was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was desolagainst the house of Judah, when they went into captivity; 25:4
Beholde I will deliver thee to the men of the east for a
possession, and thet their palaces in thee, and make their
dwellings in thee: they shall uit, and they shall drink thy
milk.

25:5 And I will make Rabbah a stamels, and the Ammonites a
couching place for flocks: and ye shall know the LORD.

25:6 For thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast clappends, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced in heart with all thy
dest the land of Israel; 25:7 Behold, therefore I will
stretch out mine hthee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to
the heathen; and I will cutfrom the people, and I will cause
thee to perish out of the countries:stroy thee; and thou
shalt know that I am the LORD.

25:8 Thus saith t; Because that Moab and Seir do say,
Behold, the house of Judah is likthe heathen; 25:9
Therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab froms, from
his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the countrimoth, Baalmeon, and Kiriathaim, 25:10 Unto the men of the
east with t and will give them in possession, that the
Ammonites may not be rememg the nations.

25:11 And I will execute judgments upon Moab; and theyow that
I am the LORD.

25:12 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Edalt against
the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly ond
revenged himself upon them; 25:13 Therefore thus saith the Lord GODalso stretch out mine hand upon Edom, and will cut off man and
beast fd I will make it desolate from Teman; and they of
Dedan shall fall by 

25:14 And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my peopled they shall do in Edom according to mine anger and
according to my fuy shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord
GOD.

25:15 Thus saith the Lecause the Philistines have dealt by
revenge, and have taken vengeancespiteful heart, to destroy
it for the old hatred; 25:16 Therefore thusLord GOD;
Behold, I will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines, aut off the Cherethims, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast.

25:1xecute great vengeance upon them with furious
rebukes; and they shall e LORD, when I shall lay my
vengeance upon them.

26:1 And it came to  eleventh year, in the first day of the
month, that the word of the LOnto me, saying, 26:2 Son of
man, because that Tyrus hath said against  Aha, she is
broken that was the gates of the people: she is turned unshall be replenished, now she is laid waste: 26:3 Therefore thus saith GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Tyrus, and will cause many
nations p against thee, as the sea causeth his waves to come
up.

26:4 And theestroy the walls of Tyrus, and break down her
towers: I will also scrast from her, and make her like the
top of a rock.

26:5 It shall be a  the spreading of nets in the midst of the
sea: for I have spoken it,  Lord GOD: and it shall become a
spoil to the nations.

26:6 And her dwhich are in the field shall be slain by the
sword; and they shall knoam the LORD.

26:7 For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring us
Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, from the north, wit and with chariots, and with horsemen, and companies, and much
people. shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the field: and he
shall magainst thee, and cast a mount against thee, and
lift up the buckler ag.

26:9 And he shall set engines of war against thy walls, and with hihall break down thy towers.

26:10 By reason of the abundance of his hir dust shall cover
thee: thy walls shall shake at the noise of the hod of the
wheels, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into thy gatn enter into a city wherein is made a breach.

26:11 With the hoofs ofs shall he tread down all thy
streets: he shall slay thy people by thed thy strong
garrisons shall go down to the ground.

26:12 And they sh spoil of thy riches, and make a prey of
thy merchandise: and they shaown thy walls, and destroy thy
pleasant houses: and they shall lay thynd thy timber and thy
dust in the midst of the water.

26:13 And I wilhe noise of thy songs to cease; and the sound
of thy harps shall be nod.

26:14 And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou shalt be aspread nets upon; thou shalt be built no more: for I the LORD
have spoith the Lord GOD.

26:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD to Tyrus; Shall not take at
the sound of thy fall, when the wounded cry, when the slaughtern the midst of thee?  26:16 Then all the princes of the sea
shall come their thrones, and lay away their robes, and put
off their broidered they shall clothe themselves with
trembling; they shall sit upon the g shall tremble at every
moment, and be astonished at thee.

26:17 And take up a lamentation for thee, and say to thee,
How art thou destroyet inhabited of seafaring men, the
renowned city, which wast strong in he and her inhabitants,
which cause their terror to be on all that hau:18 Now shall
the isles tremble in the day of thy fall; yea, the islesin
the sea shall be troubled at thy departure.

26:19 For thus saith tD; When I shall make thee a desolate
city, like the cities that are nod; when I shall bring up
the deep upon thee, and great waters shall co26:20 When I
shall bring thee down with them that descend into the pite
people of old time, and shall set thee in the low parts of the earthes desolate of old, with them that go down to the pit, that
thou be noted; and I shall set glory in the land of the
living; 26:21 I will makterror, and thou shalt be no more:
though thou be sought for, yet shalr be found again, saith
the Lord GOD.

27:1 The word of the LORD came  me, saying, 27:2 Now, thou
son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyrud say unto Tyrus,
O thou that art situate at the entry of the sea, whierchant
of the people for many isles, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O Tyrusst said, I am of perfect beauty.

27:4 Thy borders are in the midst of thy builders have
perfected thy beauty.

27:5 They have made all thy s of fir trees of Senir: they
have taken cedars from Lebanon to make mee.

27:6 Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; the companyhurites have made thy benches of ivory, brought out of the isles
of Ch7 Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou
spreadsail; blue and purple from the isles of
Elishah was that which covered7:8 The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy mariners: thy wise
menthat were in thee, were thy pilots.

27:9 The ancients of Gebal and th thereof were in thee thy
calkers: all the ships of the sea with theirwere in thee to
occupy thy merchandise.

27:10 They of Persia and of LPhut were in thine army, thy
men of war: they hanged the shield and hehee; they set forth
thy comeliness.

27:11 The men of Arvad with thine upon thy walls round
about, and the Gammadims were in thy towers: thetheir shields
upon thy walls round about; they have made thy beauty pe:12 Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kind
o with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in thy fairs.

27:13 Ja, and Meshech, they were thy merchants: they traded
the persons of mens of brass in thy market.

27:14 They of the house of Togarmah traded rs with horses
and horsemen and mules.

27:15 The men of Dedan were ths; many isles were the
merchandise of thine hand: they brought thee fohorns of
ivory and ebony.

27:16 Syria was thy merchant by reason of tde of the wares
of thy making: they occupied in thy fairs with emerald and
broidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and agate.

27:17 Judae land of Israel, they were thy merchants: they
traded in thy market wnnith, and Pannag, and honey, and oil,
and balm.

27:18 Damascus was tnt in the multitude of the wares of thy
making, for the multitude of ain the wine of Helbon, and
white wool.

27:19 Dan also and Javan goingro occupied in thy fairs:
bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were in th

27:20 Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots.

27:2 and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied with thee in
lambs, and rgoats: in these were they thy merchants.

27:22 The merchants of Shebaah, they were thy merchants: they
occupied in thy fairs with chief of s, and with all precious
stones, and gold.

27:23 Haran, and Canneh, ahe merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and
Chilmad, were thy merchants.

27:24e thy merchants in all sorts of things, in blue
clothes, and broidered in chests of rich apparel, bound with
cords, and made of cedar, amonghandise.

27:25 The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy market: st replenished, and made very glorious in the midst of the seas.

27:2s have brought thee into great waters: the east wind
hath broken thee st of the seas.

27:27 Thy riches, and thy fairs, thy merchandise, thy, and
thy pilots, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy merchandise, a men of war, that are in thee, and in all thy company which is in
the hee, shall fall into the midst of the seas in the day of
thy ruin.

27burbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy pilots.

27:29 And alndle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of
the sea, shall come heir ships, they shall stand upon the
land; 27:30 And shall cause thei be heard against thee, and
shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust heads, they
shall wallow themselves in the ashes: 27:31 And they shalmselves utterly bald for thee, and gird them with sackcloth, and
they for thee with bitterness of heart and bitter wailing.

27:32 And in thg they shall take up a lamentation for thee,
and lament over thee, sayity is like Tyrus, like the
destroyed in the midst of the sea?  27:33 ares went forth
out of the seas, thou filledst many people; thou didsthe
kings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy
merc:34 In the time when thou shalt be broken by the seas in the depths
ofs thy merchandise and all thy company in the midst of thee
shall fall.ll the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished at thee,
and theirll be sore afraid, they shall be troubled in their
countenance.

27:36hants among the people shall hiss at thee; thou shalt be
a terror, andt be any more.

28:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, f man,
say unto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because t is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seat
of Ge midst of the seas; yet thou art a man, and not God,
though thou set the heart of God: 28:3 Behold, thou art
wiser than Daniel; there is noy can hide from thee:
28:4 With thy wisdom and with thine understandint gotten
thee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasury thy great wisdom and by thy traffick hast thou increased thy
riches,heart is lifted up because of thy riches: 28:6
Therefore thus saith thD; Because thou hast set thine heart
as the heart of God; 28:7 Behold,e I will bring strangers
upon thee, the terrible of the nations: and tdraw their
swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defghtness.

28:8 They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou shalt dths of them that are slain in the midst of the seas.

28:9 Wilt thou yore him that slayeth thee, I am God? but
thou shalt be a man, and no G hand of him that slayeth thee.

28:10 Thou shalt die the deaths of thised by the hand of
strangers: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOoreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 28:12 Son of
man, tamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say unto him,
Thus saith the Lohou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and
perfect in beauty.

28:13 been in Eden the garden of God; every precious stone
was thy covering,us, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the
onyx, and the jasper, the she emerald, and the carbuncle,
and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrety pipes was prepared
in thee in the day that thou wast created.

28:14the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set thee
so: thou wast uly mountain of God; thou hast walked up and
down in the midst of the sire.

28:15 Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast
till iniquity was found in thee.

28:16 By the multitude of thy mercha have filled the midst
of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: thill cast
thee as profane out of the mountain of God: and I will destrocovering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.

28:17 Thine hefted up because of thy beauty, thou hast
corrupted thy wisdom by reasorightness: I will cast thee to
the ground, I will lay thee before kingey may behold thee.

28:18 Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the mu thine
iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will I b a fire from the midst of thee, it shall devour thee, and I will
bringshes upon the earth in the sight of all them that
behold thee.

28:19 hat know thee among the people shall be astonished at
thee: thou shaltor, and never shalt thou be any more.

28:20 Again the word of the LORo me, saying, 28:21 Son of
man, set thy face against Zidon, and prophet it, 28:22 And
say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against the; and
I will be glorified in the midst of thee: and they shall know thhe LORD, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be
san her.

28:23 For I will send into her pestilence, and blood into her sd the wounded shall be judged in the midst of her by the sword upon
heide; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

28:24 And there shall be a pricking brier unto the house of
Israel, nor any grieving thorn of all that are round about them, that
despised them; and they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

28:25 Thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall have gathered the house of
Israel from the people among whom they are scattered, and shall be
sanctified in them in the sight of the heathenall they dwell
in their land that I have given to my servant Jacob.

2hey shall dwell safely therein, and shall build houses, and
plant vine, they shall dwell with confidence, when I have
executed judgments upo that despise them round about them;
and they shall know that I am theheir God.

29:1 In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 29:2 Son of man, setagainst Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and
against a9:3 Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD;
Behold, I am against theeing of Egypt, the great dragon
that lieth in the midst of his rivers, said, My river is
mine own, and I have made it for myself.

29:4 But Ihooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of
thy rivers to stick unes, and I will bring thee up out of
the midst of thy rivers, and all t shall stick
unto thy scales.

29:5 And I will leave thee thrown into rness, thee and all
the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the o; thou
shalt not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven.

29:6 And abitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD,
because they have beenf reed to the house of Israel.

29:7 When they took hold of thee by thou didst break, and
rend all their shoulder: and when they leaned uponu brakest,
and madest all their loins to be at a stand.

29:8 Thereforh the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring a sword
upon thee, and cut off ma out of thee.

29:9 And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste;shall
know that I am the LORD: because he hath said, The river is minee made it.

29:10 Behold, therefore I am against thee, and against thynd
I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from the
yene even unto the border of Ethiopia.

29:11 No foot of man shall pasit, nor foot of beast shall
pass through it, neither shall it be inhab years.

29:12 And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midstntries that are desolate, and her cities among the cities that are
laibe desolate forty years: and I will scatter the
Egyptians among the nawill disperse them through the
countries.

29:13 Yet thus saith the Lo the end of forty years will I
gather the Egyptians from the people wh were scattered:
29:14 And I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, use
them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their
haand they shall be there a base kingdom.

29:15 It shall be the basest ngdoms; neither shall it exalt
itself any more above the nations: for nish them, that they
shall no more rule over the nations.

29:16 And i no more the confidence of the house of Israel,
which bringeth their i remembrance, when they shall look
after them: but they shall know tha Lord GOD.

29:17 And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year,st month, in the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came
untg, 29:18 Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon
caused his army toeat service against Tyrus: every head was
made bald, and every shoulded: yet had he no wages, nor his
army, for Tyrus, for the service that ved against it: 29:19
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I wil land of
Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall take , and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the
wages for.

29:20 I have given him the land of Egypt for his labour wherewith hgainst it, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord GOD.

29:21 In ll I cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud
forth, and I will gie opening of the mouth in the midst of
them; and they shall know that RD.

30:1 The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, 30:2 Son ofhesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Howl ye, Woe worth the day!
30:day is near, even the day of the LORD is near, a cloudy
day; it shall e of the heathen.

30:4 And the sword shall come upon Egypt, and greatll be in
Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt, and they shall her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.

30:5 Ethiopiya, and Lydia, and all the mingled people, and
Chub, and the men of th is in league, shall fall with them
by the sword.

30:6 Thus saith the also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and
the pride of her power shall cfrom the tower of Syene shall
they fall in it by the sword, saith the 
30:7 And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that ar and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are
wasted.

y shall know that I am the LORD, when I have set a fire in
Egypt, and her helpers shall be destroyed.

30:9 In that day shall messengers go  me in ships to make
the careless Ethiopians afraid, and great pain shupon them,
as in the day of Egypt: for, lo, it cometh.

30:10 Thus sai GOD; I will also make the multitude of Egypt
to cease by the hand of zzar king of Babylon.

30:11 He and his people with him, the terrible ions, shall
be brought to destroy the land: and they shall draw their  Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.

30:12 And I will make the rl the land into the hand
of the wicked: and I will make the land wastethat is
therein, by the hand of strangers: I the LORD have spoken it.
s saith the Lord GOD; I will also destroy the idols, and I
will cause s to cease out of Noph; and there shall be no
more a prince of the lan: and I will put a fear in the land
of Egypt.

30:14 And I will make Polate, and will set fire in Zoan, and
will execute judgments in No.

3 will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I
will cut offtude of No.

30:16 And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great No
shall be rent asunder, and Noph shall have distresses daily.

30:17men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword:
and these cities nto captivity.

30:18 At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened, wl
break there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp of her strength shall
cer: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters
shall go iny.

30:19 Thus will I execute judgments in Egypt: and they shall know he LORD.

30:20 And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first
the seventh day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,ing, 30:21 Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of
Egypt;t shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a roller
to bind it, to mong to hold the sword.

30:22 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Beholinst Pharaoh
king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and tas
broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.

30:23  scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will
disperse them throutries.

30:24 And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, asword in his hand: but I will break Pharaoh’s arms, and he shall
grohim with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.

30:25 But I will stre arms of the king of Babylon, and the
arms of Pharaoh shall fall down;all know that I am the
LORD, when I shall put my sword into the hand o of Babylon,
and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt.

30:2ll scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse
them among th; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

31:1 And it came to pass inth year, in the third month, in
the first day of the month, that the w LORD came unto me,
saying, 31:2 Son of man, speak unto Pharaoh king ond to his
multitude; Whom art thou like in thy greatness?  31:3 Beholdyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches, and with a
shadowing d of an high stature; and his top was among the
thick boughs.

31:4 Thmade him great, the deep set him up on high with her
rivers running rohis plants, and sent her little rivers unto
all the trees of the fielderefore his height was exalted above all the trees of the
field, and here multiplied, and his branches became long
because of the multitude  when he shot forth.

31:6 All the fowls of heaven made their nests in, and under
his branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth t,
and under his shadow dwelt all great nations.

31:7 Thus was he faireatness, in the length of his branches:
for his root was by great watee cedars in the garden of God could not hide him: the fir trees
were ns boughs, and the chestnut trees were not like his
branches; nor any t garden of God was like unto him in his
beauty.

31:9 I have made him e multitude of his branches: so that
all the trees of Eden, that were en of God, envied him.

31:10 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Becaut lifted up
thyself in height, and he hath shot up his top among the ts,
and his heart is lifted up in his height; 31:11 I have therefore
dem into the hand of the mighty one of the heathen; he shall
surely dealI have driven him out for his wickedness.

31:12 And strangers, the tee nations, have cut him off,
and have left him: upon the mountains ande valleys his
branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all th
the land; and all the people of the earth are gone down from his
shade left him.

31:13 Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven reml
the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches: 31:14 To the end of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves for their
height, neitop among the thick boughs, neither
their trees stand up in their heigat drink water: for they
are all delivered unto death, to the nether pearth, in the
midst of the children of men, with them that go down to 31:15 Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when he went down to the
grad a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I
restrained the floods nd the great waters were stayed: and I
caused Lebanon to mourn for himhe trees of the field
fainted for him.

31:16 I made the nations to sh sound of his fall, when I
cast him down to hell with them that descene pit: and all the
trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all  water,
shall be comforted in the nether parts of the earth.

31:17 Thnt down into hell with him unto them that be slain
with the sword; andwere his arm, that dwelt under his
shadow in the midst of the heathen. whom art thou thus like in glory and in greatness among the
trees of  shalt thou be brought down with the trees of Eden
unto the nether pararth: thou shalt lie in the midst of the
uncircumcised with them that y the sword. This is Pharaoh
and all his multitude, saith the Lord GODd it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in
the fi the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me,
saying, 32:2 Son oe up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of
Egypt, and say unto him, Thou aung lion of the nations,
and thou art as a whale in the seas: and thoust forth with thy
rivers, and troubledst the waters with thy feet, and their
rivers.

32:3 Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will therefore spread  over
thee with a company of many people; and they shall bring thee up.

32:4 Then will I leave thee upon the land, I will cast thee forth upen field, and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain
upon t will fill the beasts of the whole earth with thee.

32:5 And I will lesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys
with thy height.

32:6 I water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest,
even to the mountd the rivers shall be full of thee.

32:7 And when I shall put thee oucover the heaven, and make
the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sucloud, and the
moon shall not give her light.

32:8 All the bright ligen will I make dark over thee, and
set darkness upon thy land, saith tD.

32:9 I will also vex the hearts of many people, when I shall bringuction among the nations, into the countries which thou hast not
knownYea, I will make many people amazed at thee, and their kings
shall be raid for thee, when I shall brandish my sword
before them; and they she at every moment, every man for his
own life, in the day of thy fall. thus saith the Lord GOD; The sword of the king of Babylon
shall come .

32:12 By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy multitude to falible of the nations, all of them: and they shall spoil the
pomp of Egyl the multitude thereof shall be destroyed.

32:13 I will destroy alsoeasts thereof from beside the great
waters; neither shall the foot of le them any more, nor the
hoofs of beasts trouble them.

32:14 Then wiheir waters deep, and cause their rivers to
run like oil, saith the Lo2:15 When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate, and the country
shaitute of that whereof it was full, when I shall smite all
them that dwn, then shall they know that I am the LORD.

32:16 This is the lamentawith they shall lament her: the
daughters of the nations shall lament  shall lament for her,
even for Egypt, and for all her multitude, sait GOD.

32:17 It came to pass also in the twelfth year, in the fifteente month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 32:18
Son of for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even
her, and the daughe famous nations, unto the nether parts of
the earth, with them that o the pit.

32:19 Whom dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and be thou e uncircumcised.

32:20 They shall fall in the midst of them that are he
sword: she is delivered to the sword: draw her and all her multitud The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst
of hem that help him: they are gone down, they lie
uncircumcised, slain by 22 Asshur is there and all her company: his graves are about him:
all llen by the sword: 32:23 Whose graves are set in
the sides of the pit,ompany is round about her grave: all of
them slain, fallen by the sworused terror in the land of
the living.

32:24 There is Elam and all he round about her grave, all
of them slain, fallen by the sword, which wn uncircumcised
into the nether parts of the earth, which caused thei the
land of the living; yet have they borne their shame with them thato the pit.

32:25 They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain wmultitude: her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised,
he sword: though their terror was caused in the land of the
living, yey borne their shame with them that go down to the
pit: he is put in th them that be slain.

32:26 There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multigraves are
round about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the swh
they caused their terror in the land of the living.

32:27 And they e with the mighty that are fallen of the
uncircumcised, which are gonell with their weapons of war:
and they have laid their swords under thbut their
iniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the te mighty in the land of the living.

32:28 Yea, thou shalt be broken it of the uncircumcised, and
shalt lie with them that are slain with th
32:29 There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, which with their laid by them that were slain by the sword: they shall lie
with the und, and with them that go down to the pit.

32:30 There be the princes th, all of them, and all the
Zidonians, which are gone down with the s their terror they
are ashamed of their might; and they lie uncircumcim that
be slain by the sword, and bear their shame with them that go dpit.

32:31 Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all hie, even Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword, saith the
Lord GOor I have caused my terror in the land of the living: and he
shall be  midst of the uncircumcised with them that are
slain with the sword, eh and all his multitude, saith the
Lord GOD.

33:1 Again the word of te unto me, saying, 33:2 Son of man,
speak to the children of thy peopl unto them, When I bring
the sword upon a land, if the people of the l man of their
coasts, and set him for their watchman: 33:3 If when he sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;
33hosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not
warning; if come, and take him away, his blood shall be upon
his own head.

33:5 H sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his
blood shall be upon hthat taketh warning shall deliver his
soul.

33:6 But if the watchman ord come, and blow not the trumpet,
and the people be not warned; if tome, and take any person
from among them, he is taken away in his iniqhis blood will
I require at the watchman’s hand.

33:7 So thou, O soI have set thee a watchman unto the house
of Israel; therefore thou shord at my mouth, and warn
them from me.

33:8 When I say unto the wickked man, thou shalt surely die;
if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked
man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine
hand.

33:9 Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it;
if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou
hast delivered thy soul.

33:10 erefore, O thou son of man, speak unto the house of Israel;
Thus ye sp If our transgressions and our sins be upon us,
and we pine away in thould we then live?  33:11 Say unto
them, As I live, saith the Lord GODo pleasure in the death
of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from hd live: turn
ye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O hrael?  33:12 Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children of
thy e righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him
in the day of hession: as for the wickedness of the wicked,
he shall not fall therebyy that he turneth from his
wickedness; neither shall the righteous be ve for his
righteousness in the day that he sinneth.

33:13 When I shathe righteous, that he shall surely live; if
he trust to his own rightniquity, all his
righteousnesses shall not be remembered; but for his hat he
hath committed, he shall die for it.

33:14 Again, when I say ucked, Thou shalt surely die; if he
turn from his sin, and do that whic and right; 33:15 If the
wicked restore the pledge, give again that he walk in the
statutes of life, without committing iniquity; he shall s
he shall not die.

33:16 None of his sins that he hath committed shaloned unto
him: he hath done that which is lawful and right; he shall s

33:17 Yet the children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is not as for them, their way is not equal.

33:18 When the righteous turnetrighteousness, and
committeth iniquity, he shall even die thereby.

33f the wicked turn from his wickedness, and do that which is
lawful andshall live thereby.

33:20 Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equause of
Israel, I will judge you every one after his ways.

33:21 And io pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the
tenth month, in th of the month, that one that had escaped
out of Jerusalem came unto meThe city is smitten.

33:22 Now the hand of the LORD was upon me in thafore he
that was escaped came; and had opened my mouth, until he camehe morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more dumb.

33:23 Thd of the LORD came unto me, saying, 33:24 Son of
man, they that inhabistes of the land of Israel speak,
saying, Abraham was one, and he inheland: but we are many;
the land is given us for inheritance.

33:25 Wh unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Ye eat with
the blood, and lift us toward your idols, and shed blood:
and shall ye possess the land?  3tand upon your sword, ye
work abomination, and ye defile every one hisife: and
shall ye possess the land?  33:27 Say thou thus unto them, The Lord GOD; As I live, surely they that are in the wastes shall fall
bd, and him that is in the open field will I give to the
beasts to be dnd they that be in the forts and in the caves
shall die of the pestile For I will lay the land most desolate, and the pomp of her
strength s; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate,
that none shall pass 33:29 Then shall they know that I am the LORD, when I have laid the
lasolate because of all their abominations which they have
committed.

3thou son of man, the children of thy people still are
talking against  walls and in the doors of the houses, and
speak one to another, everys brother, saying, Come, I pray
you, and hear what is the word that cometh forth from the LORD.

33:31 And they come unto thee as the peopleth, and they sit
before thee as my people, and they hear thy words, bul not
do them: for with their mouth they shew much love, but their heafter their covetousness.

33:32 And, lo, thou art unto them as a very g of one that
hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrumeney
hear thy words, but they do them not.

33:33 And when this cometh tt will come,) then shall
they know that a prophet hath been among them the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 34:2 Son of man,
prophesy e shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say unto them,
Thus saith the Loro the shepherds; Woe be to the shepherds of
Israel that do feed themseld not the shepherds feed the
flocks?  34:3 Ye eat the fat, and ye cloh the wool, ye kill
them that are fed: but ye feed not the flock.

34:sed have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed
that which was si have ye bound up that which was broken,
neither have ye brought again was driven away, neither have
ye sought that which was lost; but withwith cruelty have ye
ruled them.

34:5 And they were scattered, becausno shepherd: and they
became meat to all the beasts of the field, whenscattered.

34:6 My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and upon
hill: yea, my flock was scattered upon all the face of the earth, andearch or seek after them.

34:7 Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the wordRD; 34:8 As I
live, saith the Lord GOD, surely because my flock becamend
my flock became meat to every beast of the field, because there wasrd, neither did my shepherds search for my flock, but the
shepherds fe fed not my flock; 34:9 Therefore, O ye
shepherds, hear the word of ths saith the Lord GOD;
Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will rflock at
their hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the flock; nl the shepherds feed themselves any more; for I will deliver my
flock mouth, that they may not be meat for them.

34:11 For thus saith the Lehold, I, even I, will both search
my sheep, and seek them out.

34:12pherd seeketh out his flock in the day that he is among
his sheep thatered; so will I seek out my sheep, and will
deliver them out of all pl they have been scattered in the
cloudy and dark day.

34:13 And I wilm out from the people, and gather them from
the countries, and will br their own land, and feed them
upon the mountains of Israel by the rivn all the inhabited
places of the country.

34:14 I will feed them in ure, and upon the high mountains
of Israel shall their fold be: there  lie in a good fold,
and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mouIsrael.

34:15 I will feed my flock, and I will cause them to lie downhe Lord GOD.

34:16 I will seek that which was lost, and bring again twas
driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will
strewhich was sick: but I will destroy the fat and the
strong; I will feed judgment.

34:17 And as for you, O my flock, thus saith the Lord GOD;
judge between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the he goats.

meth it a small thing unto you to have eaten up the good
pasture, but ead down with your feet the residue of your
pastures? and to have druneep waters, but ye must foul the
residue with your feet?  34:19 And asock, they eat that
which ye have trodden with your feet; and they drinch ye
have fouled with your feet.

34:20 Therefore thus saith the Lordhem; Behold, I, even I,
will judge between the fat cattle and between ttle.

34:21 Because ye have thrust with side and with shoulder, and pthe diseased with your horns, till ye have scattered them abroad;
34:2re will I save my flock, and they shall no more be a
prey; and I will ween cattle and cattle.

34:23 And I will set up one shepherd over theshall feed
them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shar
shepherd.

34:24 And I the LORD will be their God, and my servant Dance
among them; I the LORD have spoken it.

34:25 And I will make withvenant of peace, and will cause
the evil beasts to cease out of the la shall dwell safely
in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.

34:26 l make them and the places round about my hill a
blessing; and I will shower to come down in his season;
there shall be showers of blessing.nd the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earth
shall yincrease, and they shall be safe in their land, and
shall know that I a when I have broken the bands of their
yoke, and delivered them out of of those that served
themselves of them.

34:28 And they shall no mory to the heathen, neither shall
the beast of the land devour them; but dwell safely, and
none shall make them afraid.

34:29 And I will raishem a plant of renown, and they shall
be no more consumed with hunger , neither bear the shame of
the heathen any more.

34:30 Thus shall thhat I the LORD their God am with them, and
that they, even the house oare my people, saith the Lord
GOD.

34:31 And ye my flock, the flock ore, are men, and I am your
God, saith the Lord GOD.

35:1 Moreover thehe LORD came unto me, saying, 35:2 Son of
man, set thy face against mo and prophesy against it, 35:3
And say unto it, Thus saith the Lord GO O mount Seir, I am
against thee, and I will stretch out mine hand agand I
will make thee most desolate.

35:4 I will lay thy cities waste, halt be desolate, and thou
shalt know that I am the LORD.

35:5 Becaust had a perpetual hatred, and hast shed the blood
of the children of Ie force of the sword in the time of
their calamity, in the time that tty had an end: 35:6
Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will p unto
blood, and blood shall pursue thee: sith thou hast not hated bloblood shall pursue thee.

35:7 Thus will I make mount Seir most desolat off from it
him that passeth out and him that returneth.

35:8 And Iains with his slain men: in thy hills,
and in thy valleys, and in all , shall they fall that are
slain with the sword.

35:9 I will make the desolations, and thy cities shall not
return: and ye shall know that ORD.

35:10 Because thou hast said, These two nations and these two
coll be mine, and we will possess it; whereas the LORD was
there: 35:11  as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will even do
according to thine angerding to thine envy which thou hast
used out of thy hatred against thewill make myself known
among them, when I have judged thee.

35:12 Andt know that I am the LORD, and that I have heard
all thy blasphemies wst spoken against the mountains of
Israel, saying, They are laid desolare given us to consume.

35:13 Thus with your mouth ye have boasted a and have
multiplied your words against me: I have heard them.

35:14 h the Lord GOD; When the whole earth rejoiceth, I will
make thee desol5 As thou didst rejoice at the inheritance of the house of Israel,
becs desolate, so will I do unto thee: thou shalt be
desolate, O mount Sel Idumea, even all of it: and they shall
know that I am the LORD.

36:u son of man, prophesy unto the mountains of Israel, and
say, Ye mountael, hear the word of the LORD: 36:2 Thus
saith the Lord GOD; Because ath said against you, Aha, even
the ancient high places are ours in po36:3 Therefore
prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they you
desolate, and swallowed you up on every side, that ye might be a
unto the residue of the heathen, and ye are taken up in the
lips of ta are an infamy of the people: 36:4 Therefore, ye
mountains of Israel, rd of the Lord GOD; Thus saith the
Lord GOD to the mountains, and to tto the rivers, and to the
valleys, to the desolate wastes, and to the  are forsaken,
which became a prey and derision to the residue of the 
are round about; 36:5 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Surely in thmy jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the heathen,
and agaidumea, which have appointed my land into their
possession with the joyir heart, with despiteful minds, to
cast it out for a prey.

36:6 Propfore concerning the land of Israel, and say unto
the mountains, and to, to the rivers, and to the valleys,
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, ken in my jealousy and in
my fury, because ye have borne the shame of : 36:7
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I have lifted up mine hand,  heathen that are about you, they shall bear their shame.

36:8 But yens of Israel, ye shall shoot forth your
branches, and yield your fruitple of Israel; for they are at
hand to come.

36:9 For, behold, I am fnd I will turn unto you, and ye shall
be tilled and sown: 36:10 And I ly men upon you, all the
house of Israel, even all of it: and the citi inhabited,
and the wastes shall be builded: 36:11 And I will multiplyan and beast; and they shall increase and bring fruit: and I will
settter your old estates, and will do better unto you than at
your beginni shall know that I am the LORD.

36:12 Yea, I will cause men to walk uven my people Israel;
and they shall possess thee, and thou shalt be tce, and
thou shalt no more henceforth bereave them of men.

36:13 Thus Lord GOD; Because they say unto you, Thou land
devourest up men, and d thy nations: 36:14 Therefore thou
shalt devour men no more, neither y nations any more, saith
the Lord GOD.

36:15 Neither will I cause men thee the shame of the
heathen any more, neither shalt thou bear the f the people
any more, neither shalt thou cause thy nations to fall anith
the Lord GOD.

36:16 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, s17 Son of
man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they by their own way and by their doings: their way was before me as the
uof a removed woman.

36:18 Wherefore I poured my fury upon them for that they had
shed upon the land, and for their idols wherewith they hadit: 36:19 And I scattered them among the heathen, and they were
disperh the countries: according to their way and according
to their doings em.

36:20 And when they entered unto the heathen, whither they went, my holy name, when they said to them, These are the people of
the LORDorth out of his land.

36:21 But I had pity for mine holy name, which f Israel had
profaned among the heathen, whither they went.

36:22 Thento the house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD;
I do not this for yoO house of Israel, but for mine holy
name’s sake, which ye have prof the heathen, whither ye
went.

36:23 And I will sanctify my great namas profaned among the
heathen, which ye have profaned in the midst of the heathen
shall know that I am the LORD, saith the Lord GOD, when I nctified in you before their eyes.

36:24 For I will take you from amoathen, and gather you out
of all countries, and will bring you into yo.

36:25 Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be
clall your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I
cleanse you.

36:eart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put
within you: andake away the stony heart out of your flesh,
and I will give you an hea.

36:27 And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk ins, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them.

36:28 And ye shall dw land that I gave to your fathers; and
ye shall be my people, and I wiGod.

36:29 I will also save you from all your uncleannesses: and I wi the corn, and will increase it, and lay no famine upon you.

36:30 Anultiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of
the field, that ye e no more reproach of famine among the
heathen.

36:31 Then shall ye rur own evil ways, and your doings that
were not good, and shall lothe  in your own sight for your
iniquities and for your abominations.

36: your sakes do I this, saith the Lord GOD, be it known
unto you: be asonfounded for your own ways, O house of
Israel.

36:33 Thus saith the n the day that I shall have cleansed
you from all your iniquities I wiuse you to dwell in the
cities, and the wastes shall be builded.

36:3desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate
in the sight ofassed by.

36:35 And they shall say, This land that was desolate is behe garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are
beed, and are inhabited.

36:36 Then the heathen that are left round abol know that I
the LORD build the ruined places, and plant that that wa I
the LORD have spoken it, and I will do it.

36:37 Thus saith the Loill yet for this be enquired of by
the house of Israel, to do it for tl increase them with men
like a flock.

36:38 As the holy flock, as th Jerusalem in her solemn
feasts; so shall the waste cities be filled wof men: and
they shall know that I am the LORD.

37:1 The hand of the pon me, and carried me out in the
spirit of the LORD, and set me down st of the valley which
was full of bones, 37:2 And caused me to pass bd about:
and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, loe very dry.

37:3 And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones livswered, O Lord GOD, thou knowest.

37:4 Again he said unto me, Prophesese bones, and say unto
them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.

37:5 Thus saith the Lord GOD unto these bones; Behold, I will cause
breath to enter into you, and ye shall live: 37:6 And I will lay
sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with
skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that
I m the LORD.

37:7 So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophes
was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone
.

37:8 And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon
the skin covered them above: but there was no breath in
them.

37:9 Theunto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of
man, and say to the saith the Lord GOD; Come from the four
winds, O breath, and breathe uplain, that they may live.

37:10 So I prophesied as he commanded me, ah came into
them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceat
army.

37:11 Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are these of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope
is le cut off for our parts.

37:12 Therefore prophesy and say unto them,  the Lord GOD;
Behold, O my people, I will open your graves, and causeof your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel.

37:13 And ye shat I am the LORD, when I have opened your
graves, O my people, and br up out of your graves, 37:14 And
shall put my spirit in you, and ye s and I shall place you
in your own land: then shall ye know that I the spoken it,
and performed it, saith the LORD.

37:15 The word of the L again unto me, saying, 37:16 Moreover,
thou son of man, take thee one write upon it, For Judah,
and for the children of Israel his companioke another
stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim l
the house of Israel his companions: 37:17 And join them one to anoth stick; and they shall become one in thine hand.

37:18 And when the chy people shall speak unto thee,
saying, Wilt thou not shew us what thby these?  37:19 Say
unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I wilstick of
Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Islows, and will put them with him, even with the stick of Judah, and
ma stick, and they shall be one in mine hand.

37:20 And the sticks wheritest shall be in thine hand
before their eyes.

37:21 And say unto thith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take
the children of Israel from amonen, whither they be gone,
and will gather them on every side, and brino their own
land: 37:22 And I will make them one nation in the land uptains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all: and they
shalre two nations, neither shall they be divided into two
kingdoms any mo
37:23 Neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols,their detestable things, nor with any of their
transgressions: but I whem out of all their dwellingplaces,
wherein they have sinned, and wilhem: so shall they be my
people, and I will be their God.

37:24 And Drvant shall be king over them; and they all shall
have one shepherd: tlso walk in my judgments, and observe
my statutes, and do them.

37:25hall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my
servant, whereirs have dwelt; and they shall dwell
therein, even they, and their chilheir children’s children
for ever: and my servant David shall be ther ever.

37:26 Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it n everlasting covenant with them: and I will place them, and multiply
ill set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.

37:27 My tabeo shall be with them: yea, I will be their God,
and they shall be my p
37:28 And the heathen shall know that I the LORD do sanctify Israel,
anctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.

38:1 And the worLORD came unto me, saying, 38:2 Son of man,
set thy face against Gog, f Magog, the chief prince of
Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against hAnd say, Thus saith
the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, thrince of
Meshech and Tubal: 38:4 And I will turn thee back, and put hothy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses and
ll of them clothed with all sorts of armour, even a great
company withand shields, all of them handling swords: 38:5
Persia, Ethiopia, and Lthem; all of them with shield and
helmet: 38:6 Gomer, and all his bande of Togarmah of the
north quarters, and all his bands: and many people.

38:7 Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou, and all thy
at are assembled unto thee, and be thou a guard unto them.

38:8 After thou shalt be visited: in the latter years thou
shalt come into the l brought back from the sword, and is
gathered out of many people, agaiuntains of Israel, which
have been always waste: but it is brought forthe nations,
and they shall dwell safely all of them.

38:9 Thou shaltd come like a storm, thou shalt be like a
cloud to cover the land, thothy bands, and many people with
thee.

38:10 Thus saith the Lord GOD; lso come to pass, that at the
same time shall things come into thy minou shalt think an
evil thought: 38:11 And thou shalt say, I will go upand of
unwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that dwe, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars
nor gate take a spoil, and to take a prey; to turn thine
hand upon the desolatare now inhabited, and upon the
people that are gathered out of the na gotten cattle
and goods, that dwell in the midst of the land.

38:13  Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the
young lions thereoay unto thee, Art thou come to take a
spoil? hast thou gathered thy coke a prey? to carry away
silver and gold, to take away cattle and gooda great spoil?
38:14 Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say unto Gog,h the
Lord GOD; In that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safely, thou not know it?  38:15 And thou shalt come from thy place out of thets, thou, and many people with thee, all of them riding upon
horses, apany, and a mighty army: 38:16 And thou shalt come
up against my peopll, as a cloud to cover the land; it shall
be in the latter days, and Ig thee against my land, that the
heathen may know me, when I shall be  in thee, O Gog, before
their eyes.

38:17 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Arf whom I have spoken in
old time by my servants the prophets of Israelrophesied in
those days many years that I would bring thee against theAnd
it shall come to pass at the same time when Gog shall come againstf Israel, saith the Lord GOD, that my fury shall come up in my
face.

n my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken,
Surely in thae shall be a great shaking in the land of
Israel; 38:20 So that the fihe sea, and the fowls of the
heaven, and the beasts of the field, and g things that
creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the 
earth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown
the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to
the ground.
d I will call for a sword against him throughout all my
mountains, sai GOD: every man’s sword shall be against his
brother.

38:22 And I wagainst him with pestilence and with blood; and
I will rain upon him, is bands, and upon the many people
that are with him, an overflowing rgreat hailstones, fire,
and brimstone.

38:23 Thus will I magnify mysenctify myself; and I will be
known in the eyes of many nations, and thow that I am the
LORD.

39:1 Therefore, thou son of man, prophesy againd say, Thus
saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, thence
of Meshech and Tubal: 39:2 And I will turn thee back, and leave buh part of thee, and will cause thee to come up from the north
parts, ang thee upon the mountains of Israel: 39:3 And I
will smite thy bow ouft hand, and will cause thine arrows
to fall out of thy right hand.

3halt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou, and all thy
bands, and tthat is with thee: I will give thee unto the
ravenous birds of every s the beasts of the field to be
devoured.

39:5 Thou shalt fall upon theld: for I have spoken it, saith
the Lord GOD.

39:6 And I will send agog, and among them that dwell
carelessly in the isles: and they shall I am the LORD.

39:7 So will I make my holy name known in the midst oIsrael; and I will not let them pollute my holy name any more: and thehall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.

39:8 Behold, itand it is done, saith the Lord GOD; this is
the day whereof I have spo And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and
shallre and burn the weapons, both the shields and the
bucklers, the bows aws, and the handstaves, and the spears,
and they shall burn them with  years: 39:10 So that they
shall take no wood out of the field, neithe any out of the
forests; for they shall burn the weapons with fire: anll
spoil those that spoiled them, and rob those that robbed them, saitGOD.

39:11 And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give unlace there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passengers on the
easea: and it shall stop the noses of the passengers: and
there shall thg and all his multitude: and they shall call
it The valley of Hamongogd seven months shall the house of Israel be burying of them,
that theyse the land.

39:13 Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; a be
to them a renown the day that I shall be glorified, saith the Lord14 And they shall sever out men of continual employment, passing
throu bury with the passengers those that remain upon
the face of the earthafter the end of seven months
shall they search.

39:15 And the passens through the land, when any seeth a
man’s bone, then shall he set u it, till the buriers have
buried it in the valley of Hamongog.

39:16the name of the city shall be Hamonah. Thus shall they
cleanse the lanAnd, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD; Speak unto every
feathend to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves,
and come; gather  on every side to my sacrifice that I do
sacrifice for you, even a grece upon the mountains of
Israel, that ye may eat flesh, and drink blooYe shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the
princearth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks,
all of them fatlihan.

39:19 And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood tillnken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.

39:20 Thus ye illed at my table with horses and chariots,
with mighty men, and with  war, saith the Lord GOD.

39:21 And I will set my glory among the heaall the heathen
shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hanave
laid upon them.

39:22 So the house of Israel shall know that I ameir God
from that day and forward.

39:23 And the heathen shall know tuse of Israel went into
captivity for their iniquity: because they treainst me,
therefore hid I my face from them, and gave them into the hair enemies: so fell they all by the sword.

39:24 According to their u and according to their
transgressions have I done unto them, and hid om them.

39:25 Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Now will I bring agptivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and
wlous for my holy name; 39:26 After that they have borne
their shame, air trespasses whereby they have trespassed
against me, when they dwelttheir land, and none made them
afraid.

39:27 When I have brought them the people, and gathered
them out of their enemies’ lands, and am sin them in the
sight of many nations; 39:28 Then shall they know that ORD
their God, which caused them to be led into captivity among the
he I have gathered them unto their own land, and have left
none of them ere.

39:29 Neither will I hide my face any more from them: for I havet my spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.

40:1 In thetwentieth year of our captivity, in the beginning
of the year, in the  the month, in the fourteenth year
after that the city was smitten, iname day the hand of the
LORD was upon me, and brought me thither.

40:isions of God brought he me into the land of Israel, and
set me upon a mountain, by which was as the frame of a city
on the south.

40:3 Andt me thither, and, behold, there was a man, whose
appearance was like ance of brass, with a line of flax in
his hand, and a measuring reed; ood in the gate.

40:4 And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold wiyes, and
hear with thine ears, and set thine heart upon all that I shahee; for to the intent that I might shew them unto thee art thou
broug declare all that thou seest to the house of Israel.

40:5 And behold the outside of the house round about, and in
the man’s hand a measurf six cubits long by the cubit and an
hand breadth: so he measured the the building, one reed;
and the height, one reed.

40:6 Then came he ate which looketh toward the east, and
went up the stairs thereof, andthe threshold of the gate,
which was one reed broad; and the other thrthe gate, which
was one reed broad.

40:7 And every little chamber was long, and one reed broad;
and between the little chambers were five cthe threshold of
the gate by the porch of the gate within was one reed measured also the porch of the gate within, one reed.

40:9 Then meas porch of the gate, eight cubits; and the
posts thereof, two cubits; ach of the gate was inward.

40:10 And the little chambers of the gate ere three on this
side, and three on that side; they three were of onend the
posts had one measure on this side and on that side.

40:11 Andd the breadth of the entry of the gate, ten
cubits; and the length of  thirteen cubits.

40:12 The space also before the little chambers was this
side, and the space was one cubit on that side: and the little
c cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.

40:13 He measured ate from the roof of one little chamber to
the roof of another: the brive and twenty cubits, door
against door.

40:14 He made also posts of cubits, even unto the post of
the court round about the gate.

40:15 he face of the gate of the entrance unto the face of
the porch of the were fifty cubits.

40:16 And there were narrow windows to the little and to
their posts within the gate round about, and likewise to the arwindows were round about inward: and upon each post were palm
trees.

rought he me into the outward court, and, lo, there were
chambers, and made for the court round about: thirty
chambers were upon the pavemen And the pavement by the side of the gates over against the
length of  was the lower pavement.

40:19 Then he measured the breadth from the of the lower
gate unto the forefront of the inner court without, an huts
eastward and northward.

40:20 And the gate of the outward court thoward the north,
he measured the length thereof, and the breadth there And the little chambers thereof were three on this side and
three on and the posts thereof and the arches thereof were
after the measure of gate: the length thereof was fifty
cubits, and the breadth five and tts.

40:22 And their windows, and their arches, and their palm trees,  the measure of the gate that looketh toward the east; and they
went uy seven steps; and the arches thereof were before
them.

40:23 And thethe inner court was over against the gate toward
the north, and toward and he measured from gate to gate an
hundred cubits.

40:24 After thaht me toward the south, and behold a gate
toward the south: and he meaosts thereof and the arches
thereof according to these measures.

40:2ere windows in it and in the arches thereof round
about, like those wilength was fifty cubits, and the
breadth five and twenty cubits.

40:2e were seven steps to go up to it, and the arches
thereof were before t had palm trees, one on this side, and
another on that side, upon thereof.

40:27 And there was a gate in the inner court toward the south:asured from gate to gate toward the south an hundred cubits.

40:28 Anht me to the inner court by the south gate: and he
measured the south ding to these measures; 40:29 And the
little chambers thereof, and theeof, and the arches
thereof, according to these measures: and there we in it and
in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty cubits longand twenty cubits broad.

40:30 And the arches round about were five acubits long, and
five cubits broad.

40:31 And the arches thereof were utter court; and palm
trees were upon the posts thereof: and the goin had eight
steps.

40:32 And he brought me into the inner court towardand he
measured the gate according to these measures.

40:33 And the lrs thereof, and the posts thereof, and the
arches thereof, were accordhese measures: and there were
windows therein and in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty
cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad.

40:34 And the arches thereof were toward the outward court; and palm
trees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and
the going up to it had eight steps.

40:35 And he brought me to rth gate, and measured it according
to these measures; 40:36 The littl thereof, the posts
thereof, and the arches thereof, and the windows t about:
the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty c0:37 And the posts thereof were toward the utter court; and palm
trees the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and
the going up tight steps.

40:38 And the chambers and the entries thereof were by thf
the gates, where they washed the burnt offering.

40:39 And in the p gate were two tables on this side, and
two tables on that side, to sl the burnt offering and the
sin offering and the trespass offering.

4t the side without, as one goeth up to the entry of the
north gate, weles; and on the other side, which was at the
porch of the gate, were t

40:41 Four tables were on this side, and four tables on that side, bgate; eight tables, whereupon they slew their
sacrifices.

40:42 And t were of hewn stone for the burnt offering,
of a cubit and an half lonubit and an half broad, and one
cubit high: whereupon also they laid tents wherewith they
slew the burnt offering and the sacrifice.

40:43 n were hooks, an hand broad, fastened round about: and
upon the tablesflesh of the offering.

40:44 And without the inner gate were the chame singers in
the inner court, which was at the side of the north gate;
prospect was toward the south: one at the side of the east gate havinspect toward the north.

40:45 And he said unto me, This chamber, whosis toward the
south, is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of 

40:46 And the chamber whose prospect is toward the north is for the
e keepers of the charge of the altar: these are the sons of
Zadok amonof Levi, which come near to the LORD to minister
unto him.

40:47 So hthe court, an hundred cubits long, and an hundred
cubits broad, foursqhe altar that was before the house.

40:48 And he brought me to the po house, and measured each
post of the porch, five cubits on this side,cubits on that
side: and the breadth of the gate was three cubits on tand
three cubits on that side.

40:49 The length of the porch was twenand the breadth
eleven cubits, and he brought me by the steps whereby  up to
it: and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and  that side.

41:1 Afterward he brought me to the temple, and measured six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the other
sias the breadth of the tabernacle.

41:2 And the breadth of the door was; and the sides of the
door were five cubits on the one side, and fivn the other
side: and he measured the length thereof, forty cubits: andth, twenty cubits.

41:3 Then went he inward, and measured the post o, two
cubits; and the door, six cubits; and the breadth of the door, s.

41:4 So he measured the length thereof, twenty cubits; and the
brea cubits, before the temple: and he said unto me, This
is the most holy1:5 After he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the
bread side chamber, four cubits, round about the house on
every side.

41:6ide chambers were three, one over another, and thirty in
order; and thinto the wall which was of the house for the
side chambers round abouty might have hold, but they had not
hold in the wall of the house.

41re was an enlarging, and a winding about still upward to
the side chamthe winding about of the house went still
upward round about the house the breadth of the house was
still upward, and so increased from the amber to the highest
by the midst.

41:8 I saw also the height of the d about: the foundations
of the side chambers were a full reed of six s.

41:9 The thickness of the wall, which was for the side chamber
witfive cubits: and that which was left was the place of the
side chambere within.

41:10 And between the chambers was the wideness of twenty cd
about the house on every side.

41:11 And the doors of the side chamtoward the place that
was left, one door toward the north, and anotherrd the
south: and the breadth of the place that was left was five cubiout.

41:12 Now the building that was before the separate place at therd the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building
wass thick round about, and the length thereof ninety
cubits.

41:13 So h the house, an hundred cubits long; and the
separate place, and the buh the walls thereof, an hundred
cubits long; 41:14 Also the breadth ofof the house, and of
the separate place toward the east, an hundred cu5 And he measured the length of the building over against the
separateh was behind it, and the galleries thereof on the
one side and on the  an hundred cubits, with the inner
temple, and the porches of the courhe door posts, and the
narrow windows, and the galleries round about oree stories,
over against the door, cieled with wood round about, and ground up to the windows, and the windows were covered; 41:17 To that
oor, even unto the inner house, and without, and by all the
wall round and without, by measure.

41:18 And it was made with cherubims and pat a palm
tree was between a cherub and a cherub; and every cherub had 41:19 So that the face of a man was toward the palm tree on the
one si face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the
other side: it was m all the house round about.

41:20 From the ground unto above the doorubims and palm
trees made, and on the wall of the temple.

41:21 The p temple were squared, and the face of the
sanctuary; the appearance ofs the appearance of the other.

41:22 The altar of wood was three cubid the length thereof
two cubits; and the corners thereof, and the leng, and the
walls thereof, were of wood: and he said unto me, This is tht is before the LORD.

41:23 And the temple and the sanctuary had two 24 And the doors had two leaves apiece, two turning leaves; two
leavese door, and two leaves for the other door.

41:25 And there were made  the doors of the temple,
cherubims and palm trees, like as were made alls; and there
were thick planks upon the face of the porch without.
there were narrow windows and palm trees on the one side and
on the oton the sides of the porch, and upon the side
chambers of the house, ananks.

42:1 Then he brought me forth into the utter court, the way towth: and he brought me into the chamber that was over against the
separ and which was before the building toward the north.

42:2 Before the an hundred cubits was the north door, and
the breadth was fifty cubitsr against the twenty cubits which were for the inner court,
and over a pavement which was for the utter court, was
gallery against gallery iries.

42:4 And before the chambers was a walk to ten cubits breadth iy of one cubit; and their doors toward the north.

42:5 Now the upper ere shorter: for the galleries were
higher than these, than the lower, the middlemost of the
building.

42:6 For they were in three stories,not pillars as the
pillars of the courts: therefore the building was smore than
the lowest and the middlemost from the ground.

42:7 And thet was without over against the chambers, toward
the utter court on theof the chambers, the length thereof
was fifty cubits.

42:8 For the le chambers that were in the utter court was
fifty cubits: and, lo, befole were an hundred cubits.

42:9 And from under these chambers was thethe east side, as
one goeth into them from the utter court.

42:10 Thewere in the thickness of the wall of the court
toward the east, over a separate place, and over against the
building.

42:11 And the way bef like the appearance of the chambers
which were toward the north, as l, and as broad as they:
and all their goings out were both according thions, and
according to their doors.

42:12 And according to the doorsambers that were toward the
south was a door in the head of the way, e directly before
the wall toward the east, as one entereth into them.
 said he unto me, The north chambers and the south chambers,
which are separate place, they be holy chambers, where the
priests that approacLORD shall eat the most holy things:
there shall they lay the most holnd the meat offering, and
the sin offering, and the trespass offering;ace is holy.

42:14 When the priests enter therein, then shall they nof
the holy place into the utter court, but there they shall lay their
herein they minister; for they are holy; and shall put on
other garmenall approach to those things which are for the
people.

42:15 Now whene an end of measuring the inner house, he
brought me forth toward the  prospect is toward the east,
and measured it round about.

42:16 He me east side with the measuring reed, five hundred
reeds, with the meas round about.

42:17 He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, wsuring reed round about.

42:18 He measured the south side, five hundrwith the
measuring reed.

42:19 He turned about to the west side, and ve hundred
reeds with the measuring reed.

42:20 He measured it by thes: it had a wall round about,
five hundred reeds long, and five hundreo make a separation
between the sanctuary and the profane place.

43:1he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looketh
toward the east:e glory of the God of Israel came
from the way of the east: and his voke a noise of many
waters: and the earth shined with his glory.

43:3 according to the appearance of the vision which I saw,
even according on that I saw when I came to destroy the
city: and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river
Chebar; and I fell upon my face.3:4 And the glory of the LORD came into the house by the way of the
garospect is toward the east.

43:5 So the spirit took me up, and broughhe inner court;
and, behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house.

heard him speaking unto me out of the house; and the man
stood by me.
 he said unto me, Son of man, the place of my throne, and the
place of of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the
children of Israel and my holy name, shall the house of
Israel no more defile, neither teir kings, by their
whoredom, nor by the carcases of their kings in thlaces.

43:8 In their setting of their threshold by my thresholds, and by my posts, and the wall between me and them, they have even
defiledme by their abominations that they have committed:
wherefore I have co in mine anger.

43:9 Now let them put away their whoredom, and the ca their
kings, far from me, and I will dwell in the midst of them for e0 Thou son of man, shew the house to the house of Israel, that
they maed of their iniquities: and let them measure the
pattern.

43:11 And ishamed of all that they have done, shew them the
form of the house, anion thereof, and the goings out
thereof, and the comings in thereof, aorms thereof, and
all the ordinances thereof, and all the forms thereothe
laws thereof: and write it in their sight, that they may keep the
hereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and do them.

43:12 This is th house; Upon the top of the mountain the
whole limit thereof round abobe most holy. Behold, this is
the law of the house.

43:13 And these asures of the altar after the cubits: The
cubit is a cubit and an hand en the bottom shall be a
cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and the bordeby the edge
thereof round about shall be a span: and this shall be theace of the altar.

43:14 And from the bottom upon the ground even to tettle
shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the leseven to the greater settle shall be four cubits, and the
breadth one c15 So the altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar and upward
shr horns.

43:16 And the altar shall be twelve cubits long, twelve broain the four squares thereof.

43:17 And the settle shall be fourteen c and fourteen broad
in the four squares thereof; and the border about e half a
cubit; and the bottom thereof shall be a cubit about; and hisall look toward the east.

43:18 And he said unto me, Son of man, thus Lord GOD; These
are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they ke it, to
offer burnt offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon thou shalt give to the priests the Levites that be of the
seed of Zad approach unto me, to minister unto me, saith the
Lord GOD, a young bua sin offering.

43:20 And thou shalt take of the blood thereof, and pthe four
horns of it, and on the four corners of the settle, and upon round about: thus shalt thou cleanse and purge it.

43:21 Thou shalt tllock also of the sin offering, and he
shall burn it in the appointed the house, without the
sanctuary.

43:22 And on the second day thou sha kid of the goats
without blemish for a sin offering; and they shall  altar,
as they did cleanse it with the bullock.

43:23 When thou hastd of cleansing it, thou shalt offer a
young bullock without blemish, aut of the flock without
blemish.

43:24 And thou shalt offer them befoD, and the priests shall
cast salt upon them, and they shall offer theburnt offering
unto the LORD.

43:25 Seven days shalt thou prepare eveoat for a sin
offering: they shall also prepare a young bullock, and a
the flock, without blemish.

43:26 Seven days shall they purge the alrify it; and they
shall consecrate themselves.

43:27 And when these dpired, it shall be, that upon the
eighth day, and so forward, the prieour burnt
offerings upon the altar, and your peace offerings; and I wiith the Lord GOD.

44:1 Then he brought me back the way of the gate of
sanctuary which looketh toward the east; and it was shut.

44:2 Then RD unto me; This gate shall be shut, it shall not
be opened, and no maer in by it; because the LORD, the God
of Israel, hath entered in by ie it shall be shut.

44:3 It is for the prince; the prince, he shall s eat bread
before the LORD; he shall enter by the way of the porch of and shall go out by the way of the same.

44:4 Then brought he me the north gate before the house:
and I looked, and, behold, the glory of ted the house of
the LORD: and I fell upon my face.

44:5 And the LORD , Son of man, mark well, and behold with
thine eyes, and hear with thi that I say unto thee
concerning all the ordinances of the house of thall the
laws thereof; and mark well the entering in of the house, with forth of the sanctuary.

44:6 And thou shalt say to the rebellious, eouse of
Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O ye house of Israel, let it  of all your abominations, 44:7 In that ye have brought into my
sanctu, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised in
flesh, to be in my sancollute it, even my house, when ye
offer my bread, the fat and the bloo, and they have broken my
covenant because of all your abominations.

e have not kept the charge of mine holy things: but ye have
set keeperarge in my sanctuary for yourselves.

44:9 Thus saith the Lord GOD; Noger, uncircumcised in heart, nor
uncircumcised in flesh, shall enter ictuary, of any stranger
that is among the children of Israel.

44:10 Aites that are gone away far from me, when Israel went
astray, which weaway from me after their idols; they shall
even bear their iniquity.

hey shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having charge at
the gates of and ministering to the house: they shall slay
the burnt offering and tce for the people, and they shall
stand before them to minister unto t Because they ministered unto them before their idols, and caused
the rael to fall into iniquity; therefore have I lifted up
mine hand againith the Lord GOD, and they shall bear their
iniquity.

44:13 And they ome near unto me, to do the office of a
priest unto me, nor to come nef my holy things, in the most
holy place: but they shall bear their shheir abominations
which they have committed.

44:14 But I will make thof the charge of the house, for all
the service thereof, and for all te done therein.

44:15 But the priests the Levites, the sons of Zadok,the
charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray froshall come near to me to minister unto me, and they shall
stand before unto me the fat and the blood, saith the Lord
GOD: 44:16 They shall ey sanctuary, and they shall come
near to my table, to minister unto meshall keep my charge.

44:17 And it shall come to pass, that when theyates
of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; an shall come upon them, whiles they minister in the gates of the
inner nd within.

44:18 They shall have linen bonnets upon their heads, and inen breeches upon their loins; they shall not gird themselves with
ancauseth sweat.

44:19 And when they go forth into the utter court, eveutter
court to the people, they shall put off their garments wherein ted, and lay them in the holy chambers, and they shall put on
other garthey shall not sanctify the people with their
garments.

44:20 Neither shave their heads, nor suffer their locks to
grow long; they shall onr heads.

44:21 Neither shall any priest drink wine, when they enter iner court.

44:22 Neither shall they take for their wives a widow, noris
put away: but they shall take maidens of the seed of the house of
I a widow that had a priest before.

44:23 And they shall teach my peopference between the holy
and profane, and cause them to discern betweeean and the
clean.

44:24 And in controversy they shall stand in judgmhey shall
judge it according to my judgments: and they shall keep my l
statutes in all mine assemblies; and they shall hallow my sabbaths.

they shall come at no dead person to defile themselves: but
for father for son, or for daughter, for brother,
or for sister that hath had noy may defile themselves.

44:26 And after he is cleansed, they shall ro him seven days.

44:27 And in the day that he goeth into the sanctuahe inner
court, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin oith the Lord GOD.

44:28 And it shall be unto them for an inheritance:r
inheritance: and ye shall give them no possession in Israel: I am
thion.

44:29 They shall eat the meat offering, and the sin offering, anpass offering: and every dedicated thing in Israel shall be
theirs.

4e first of all the firstfruits of all things, and every
oblation of aly sort of your oblations, shall be the
priest’s: ye shall also give the priest the first of your dough,
that he may cause the blessing to ine house.

44:31 The priests shall not eat of any thing that is dead 
or torn, whether it be fowl or beast.

45:1 Moreover, when ye shall dt the land for inheritance,
ye shall offer an oblation unto the LORD, rtion of the land:
the length shall be the length of five and twenty teds, and
the breadth shall be ten thousand. This shall be holy in all s thereof round about.

45:2 Of this there shall be for the sanctuary d in length,
with five hundred in breadth, square round about; and fifound about for the suburbs thereof.

45:3 And of this measure shalt ththe length of five and
twenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousant shall be
the sanctuary and the most holy place.

45:4 The holy portiand shall be for the priests the
ministers of the sanctuary, which shar to minister unto the
LORD: and it shall be a place for their houses,y place for
the sanctuary.

45:5 And the five and twenty thousand of lthe ten thousand
of breadth shall also the Levites, the ministers of t have
for themselves, for a possession for twenty chambers.

45:6 And point the possession of the city five thousand
broad, and five and twend long, over against the oblation of
the holy portion: it shall be foe house of Israel.

45:7 And a portion shall be for the prince on the d on the
other side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the pof the city, before the oblation of the holy portion, and before the
po the city, from the west side westward, and from the east
side eastwar length shall be over against one of the
portions, from the west borde east border.

45:8 In the land shall be his possession in Israel: ands
shall no more oppress my people; and the rest of the land shall theythe house of Israel according to their tribes.

45:9 Thus saith the Loet it suffice you, O princes of Israel:
remove violence and spoil, andudgment and justice, take away
your exactions from my people, saith th.

45:10 Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bat The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath
may conenth part of an homer, and the ephah the tenth part
of an homer: the mereof shall be after the homer.

45:12 And the shekel shall be twenty enty shekels, five and
twenty shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your :13 This is the oblation that ye shall offer; the sixth part of an
ephomer of wheat, and ye shall give the sixth part of an
ephah of an homeey: 45:14 Concerning the ordinance of oil,
the bath of oil, ye shall oenth part of a bath out of the
cor, which is an homer of ten baths; foare an homer: 45:15
And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred,e fat
pastures of Israel; for a meat offering, and for a burnt offerinpeace offerings, to make reconciliation for them, saith the Lord
GOD.
the people of the land shall give this oblation for the
prince in IsraAnd it shall be the prince’s part to give burnt offerings, and
meat and drink offerings, in the feasts, and in the new
moons, and in the sn all solemnities of the house of Israel:
he shall prepare the sin offthe meat offering, and the
burnt offering, and the peace offerings, tonciliation for
the house of Israel.

45:18 Thus saith the Lord GOD; In month, in the first day of
the month, thou shalt take a young bullocklemish, and
cleanse the sanctuary: 45:19 And the priest shall take of he sin offering, and put it upon the posts of the house, and upon the
ettle of the altar, and upon the posts of the
gate of the inner court.d so thou shalt do the seventh day of the month for every one
that error him that is simple: so shall ye reconcile the
house.

45:21 In the h, in the fourteenth day of the month, ye shall
have the passover, a fven days; unleavened bread shall be
eaten.

45:22 And upon that day shince prepare for himself and for
all the people of the land a bullock  offering.

45:23 And seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burntto
the LORD, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily the
s; and a kid of the goats daily for a sin offering.

45:24 And he shall meat offering of an ephah for a bullock,
and an ephah for a ram, and il for an ephah.

45:25 In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of  shall
he do the like in the feast of the seven days, according to theing, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meat
offeriording to the oil.

46:1 Thus saith the Lord GOD; The gate of the inneat looketh
toward the east shall be shut the six working days; but on h
it shall be opened, and in the day of the new moon it shall be openend the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate
withoutl stand by the post of the gate, and the priests
shall prepare his burg and his peace offerings, and he shall
worship at the threshold of thn he shall go forth; but the
gate shall not be shut until the evening.wise the people of the land shall worship at the door of this
gate befD in the sabbaths and in the new moons.

46:4 And the burnt offering tthe prince shall offer unto the LORD
in the sabbath day shall be six lut blemish, and a ram
without blemish.

46:5 And the meat offering shaphah for a ram, and the meat
offering for the lambs as he shall be abland an hin of oil
to an ephah.

46:6 And in the day of the new moon ita young bullock
without blemish, and six lambs, and a ram: they shall 
blemish.

46:7 And he shall prepare a meat offering, an ephah for a bd
an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs according as his hand shall
at and an hin of oil to an ephah.

46:8 And when the prince shall enter,go in by the way of the
porch of that gate, and he shall go forth by teof.

46:9 But when the people of the land shall come before the LORD emn feasts, he that entereth in by the way of the north gate to
worshi out by the way of the south gate; and he that
entereth by the way of ate shall go forth by the way of the
north gate: he shall not return bof the gate whereby he came
in, but shall go forth over against it.

4the prince in the midst of them, when they go in, shall go
in; and wheforth, shall go forth.

46:11 And in the feasts and in the solemnitiesoffering shall
be an ephah to a bullock, and an ephah to a ram, and to as
he is able to give, and an hin of oil to an ephah.

46:12 Now whene shall prepare a voluntary burnt offering or
peace offerings voluntarily unto the LORD, one shall then open him the
gate that looketh toward the east, and he shall prepare his burnt
offering and his peace offerings, as he did on the sabbath day: then
he shall go forth; and after his going forth one shall shut the gate.

46:13 Thou shalt daily prepare a burnt offering unto the LORD of a
lamb of the first year without blemish: thou shalt prepare it every
morning.

46:14 And thou shalt prepare a meat offering for it every morning, the
sixth part of an ephad the third part of an hin of oil, to temper
with the fine flour; a meg continually by a perpetual
ordinance unto the LORD.

46:15 Thus shalare the lamb, and the meat offering, and the
oil, every morning for a rnt offering.

46:16 Thus saith the Lord GOD; If the prince give a gif of
his sons, the inheritance thereof shall be his sons’; it shall bssession by inheritance.

46:17 But if he give a gift of his inheritanof his servants,
then it shall be his to the year of liberty; after iturn to
the prince: but his inheritance shall be his sons’ for them.
eover the prince shall not take of the people’s inheritance
by opprethrust them out of their possession; but he shall
give his sons inheri own possession: that my people be
not scattered every man from his po9 After he brought me through the entry, which was at the side of
the  the holy chambers of the priests, which looked toward
the north: and,there was a place on the two sides westward.

46:20 Then said he unto s the place where the priests shall
boil the trespass offering and theing, where they shall bake
the meat offering; that they bear them not e utter court,
to sanctify the people.

46:21 Then he brought me forthutter court, and caused me to
pass by the four corners of the court; a in every corner of
the court there was a court.

46:22 In the four cohe court there were courts joined of
forty cubits long and thirty broar corners were of one
measure.

46:23 And there was a row of building out in them, round about
them four, and it was made with boiling placehe rows round
about.

46:24 Then said he unto me, These are the placesat boil,
where the ministers of the house shall boil the sacrifice of .

47:1 Afterward he brought me again unto the door of the house; and,ters issued out from under the threshold of the house
eastward: for tht of the house stood toward the east, and
the waters came down from unhe right side of the house, at
the south side of the altar.

47:2 Thenhe me out of the way of the gate northward, and led
me about the way w the utter gate by the way that looketh
eastward; and, behold, there rers on the right side.

47:3 And when the man that had the line in hist forth
eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me thraters; the waters were to the ankles.

47:4 Again he measured a thousaught me through the waters;
the waters were to the knees. Again he meausand, and
brought me through; the waters were to the loins.

47:5 Afteasured a thousand; and it was a river that I could
not pass over: forwere risen, waters to swim in, a river
that could not be passed over.
 he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this? Then he
brought me, me to return to the brink of the river.

47:7 Now when I had returnedat the bank of the river were
very many trees on the one side and on t
47:8 Then said he unto me, These waters issue out toward the east
couo down into the desert, and go into the sea: which being
brought forthsea, the waters shall be healed.

47:9 And it shall come to pass, thatg that liveth, which
moveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shald there
shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters thither: for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live
whither ometh.

47:10 And it shall come to pass, that the fishers shall stand om Engedi even unto Eneglaim; they shall be a place to spread forth
nefish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of the
great sea, many.

47:11 But the miry places thereof and the marishes thereof shalealed; they shall be given to salt.

47:12 And by the river upon the b, on this side and on that
side, shall grow all trees for meat, whose l not fade,
neither shall the fruit thereof be consumed: it shall brinw
fruit according to his months, because their waters they issued out ctuary: and the fruit thereof shall be for meat, and the leaf
thereof e.

47:13 Thus saith the Lord GOD; This shall be the border, whereby yherit the land according to the twelve tribes of Israel:
Joseph shall portions.

47:14 And ye shall inherit it, one as well as another: concwhich I lifted up mine hand to give it unto your fathers: and this
lanll unto you for inheritance.

47:15 And this shall be the border of thard the north side,
from the great sea, the way of Hethlon, as men go Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus andath; Hazarhatticon, which is by the coast of Hauran.

47:17 And the bothe sea shall be Hazarenan, the border of
Damascus, and the north nort the border of Hamath. And this
is the north side.

47:18 And the easthall measure from Hauran, and from
Damascus, and from Gilead, and from Israel by Jordan, from
the border unto the east sea. And this is the 
47:19 And the south side southward, from Tamar even to the waters of
 the river to the great sea. And this is the south
side southward.

47also shall be the great sea from the border, till
a man come over agai This is the west side.

47:21 So shall ye divide this land unto you a the tribes of
Israel.

47:22 And it shall come to pass, that ye shallby lot for an
inheritance unto you, and to the strangers that sojourn ,
which shall beget children among you: and they shall be unto you as
 country among the children of Israel; they shall have
inheritance wit the tribes of Israel.

47:23 And it shall come to pass, that in what tranger
sojourneth, there shall ye give him his inheritance, saith the
48:1 Now these are the names of the tribes. From the north end to thethe way of Hethlon, as one goeth to Hamath, Hazarenan, the
border of Drthward, to the coast of Hamath; for these are
his sides east and west for Dan.

48:2 And by the border of Dan, from the east side unto the 
a portion for Asher.

48:3 And by the border of Asher, from the east  unto the west
side, a portion for Naphtali.

48:4 And by the border o from the east side unto the west
side, a portion for Manasseh.

48:5  border of Manasseh, from the east side unto the west
side, a portion m.

48:6 And by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even unto th, a portion for Reuben.

48:7 And by the border of Reuben, from the eato the west
side, a portion for Judah.

48:8 And by the border of Judast side unto the west
side, shall be the offering which ye shall offerd twenty
thousand reeds in breadth, and in length as one of the other m the east side unto the west side: and the sanctuary shall be in
the t.

48:9 The oblation that ye shall offer unto the LORD shall be of fity thousand in length, and of ten thousand in breadth.

48:10 And for for the priests, shall be this holy oblation;
toward the north five anousand in length, and toward the
west ten thousand in breadth, and towt ten thousand in
breadth, and toward the south five and twenty thousa: and
the sanctuary of the LORD shall be in the midst thereof.

48:11  for the priests that are sanctified of the sons of
Zadok; which have rge, which went not astray when the
children of Israel went astray, ass went astray.

48:12 And this oblation of the land that is offered shthem
a thing most holy by the border of the Levites.

48:13 And over aborder of the priests the Levites shall
have five and twenty thousand and ten thousand in breadth:
all the length shall be five and twenty td the breadth ten
thousand.

48:14 And they shall not sell of it, neite, nor alienate
the firstfruits of the land: for it is holy unto the LAnd the five thousand, that are left in the breadth over against
the fnty thousand, shall be a profane place for the city,
for dwelling, andbs: and the city shall be in the midst
thereof.

48:16 And these shallasures thereof; the north side four
thousand and five hundred, and thefour thousand and five
hundred, and on the east side four thousand andred, and the
west side four thousand and five hundred.

48:17 And the the city shall be toward the north two
hundred and fifty, and toward t hundred and fifty, and
toward the east two hundred and fifty, and towtwo hundred
and fifty.

48:18 And the residue in length over against tn of the holy
portion shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousandand
it shall be over against the oblation of the holy portion; and the thereof shall be for food unto them that serve the city.

48:19 And trve the city shall serve it out of all the
tribes of Israel.

48:20 Alion shall be five and twenty thousand by five and
twenty thousand: ye r the holy oblation foursquare, with the
possession of the city.

48:2residue shall be for the prince, on the one side and on
the other of tation, and of the possession of the city,
over against the five and twand of the oblation toward the
east border, and westward over against d twenty thousand
toward the west border, over against the portions foce: and
it shall be the holy oblation; and the sanctuary of the house  the midst thereof.

48:22 Moreover from the possession of the Leviteshe
possession of the city, being in the midst of that which is the
prihe border of Judah and the border of Benjamin,
shall be for the prince the rest of the tribes, from the east side unto the west
side, Benjamave a portion.

48:24 And by the border of Benjamin, from the east sidwest
side, Simeon shall have a portion.

48:25 And by the border of Si the east side unto the west
side, Issachar a portion.

48:26 And by tof Issachar, from the east side unto the west
side, Zebulun a portion.d by the border of Zebulun, from the east side unto the west
side, Gad.

48:28 And by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the
bobe even from Tamar unto the waters of strife in Kadesh,
and to the rivthe great sea.

48:29 This is the land which ye shall divide by lot unbes of
Israel for inheritance, and these are their portions, saith the
48:30 And these are the goings out of the city on the north side, found five hundred measures.

48:31 And the gates of the city shall be afmes of the tribes
of Israel: three gates northward; one gate of Reuben of
Judah, one gate of Levi.

48:32 And at the east side four thousandhundred: and three
gates; and one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin of Dan.

48:33 And at the south side four thousand and five hundred mnd three gates; one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate of
8:34 At the west side four thousand and five hundred, with their
threee gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali.

48:35 It was eighteen thousand measures: and the name of
the city from that day shaLORD is there.




The Book of Daniel


1:1 In the third year of the roiakim king of Judah came
Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon unto Jerusaleieged it.

1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand
of the vessels of the house of God: which he carried into the land ofthe house of his god; and he brought the vessels into the
treasure houod.

1:3 And the king spake unto Ashpenaz the master of his eunuchs, tld bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king’s
seed, princes; 1:4 Children in whom was no blemish, but
well favoured, and sl wisdom, and cunning in knowledge,
and understanding science, and sucility in them to stand in
the king’s palace, and whom they might tearning and the
tongue of the Chaldeans.

1:5 And the king appointed theprovision of the king’s meat,
and of the wine which he drank: so nouem three years, that
at the end thereof they might stand before the kiow among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah,
Mishaeriah: 1:7 Unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave
names: for he gave l the name of Belteshazzar; and to
Hananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishahach; and to Azariah, of
Abednego.

1:8 But Daniel purposed in his hea would not defile himself
with the portion of the king’s meat, nor wne which he drank:
therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchsight not
defile himself.

1:9 Now God had brought Daniel into favour aove with the
prince of the eunuchs.

1:10 And the prince of the eunucho Daniel, I fear my lord
the king, who hath appointed your meat and yofor why should
he see your faces worse liking than the children which ur
sort? then shall ye make me endanger my head to the king.

1:11 Theiel to Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had
set over Daniel, Hanael, and Azariah, 1:12 Prove thy
servants, I beseech thee, ten days; am give us pulse to eat,
and water to drink.

1:13 Then let our countenlooked upon before thee, and the
countenance of the children that eat tion of the king’s
meat: and as thou seest, deal with thy servants.
e consented to them in this matter, and proved them ten days.

1:15 And of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and
fatter in flesh tchildren which did eat the portion of the
king’s meat.

1:16 Thus Meway the portion of their meat, and the wine
that they should drink; an pulse.

1:17 As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and l learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions
and:18 Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring
hen the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before
Nebuchadnezzar.

 king communed with them; and among them all was found
none like Danie and Azariah: therefore stood they
before the king.

1:20 And in all misdom and understanding, that the king
enquired of them, he found them better than all the
magicians and astrologers that were in all his reAnd Daniel continued even unto the first year of king Cyrus.

2:1 And nd year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar
Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, his spirit was troubled, and
his sleep brake from him.

2:2 Then the knded to call the magicians, and the
astrologers, and the sorcerers, andeans, for to shew the
king his dreams. So they came and stood before 

2:3 And the king said unto them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirbled to know the dream.

2:4 Then spake the Chaldeans to the king in Sing, live for
ever: tell thy servants the dream, and we will shew the
ion.

2:5 The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The thing is go if ye will not make known unto me the dream, with the
interpretation  shall be cut in pieces, and your houses
shall be made a dunghill.

2: shew the dream, and the interpretation thereof, ye shall
receive of md rewards and great honour: therefore shew me
the dream, and the interhereof.

2:7 They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servaam, and we will shew the interpretation of it.

2:8 The king answered  know of certainty that ye would gain
the time, because ye see the thi from me.

2:9 But if ye will not make known unto me the dream, there decree for you: for ye have prepared lying and corrupt words to speak
ill the time be changed: therefore tell me the dream, and
I shall know that ye can shew me the interpretation thereof.

2:10 The Chaldeans a before the king, and said, There is not a
man upon the earth that canking’s matter: therefore there is
no king, lord, nor ruler, that askings at any magician, or
astrologer, or Chaldean.

2:11 And it is a raat the king requireth, and there is none
other that can shew it beforeexcept the gods, whose
dwelling is not with flesh.

2:12 For this causwas angry and very furious, and commanded
to destroy all the wise men 

2:13 And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain; anght Daniel and his fellows to be slain.

2:14 Then Daniel answered witand wisdom to Arioch the
captain of the king’s guard, which was gonelay the wise men
of Babylon: 2:15 He answered and said to Arioch the ktain,
Why is the decree so hasty from the king? Then Arioch made the tto Daniel.

2:16 Then Daniel went in, and desired of the king that he him time, and that he would shew the king the interpretation.

2:17 Thwent to his house, and made the thing known to
Hananiah, Mishael, and is companions: 2:18 That they would
desire mercies of the God of heavening this secret; that
Daniel and his fellows should not perish with tthe wise men
of Babylon.

2:19 Then was the secret revealed unto Danieht vision. Then
Daniel blessed the God of heaven.

2:20 Daniel answere, Blessed be the name of God for ever and
ever: for wisdom and might a1 And he changeth the times and
the seasons: he removeth kings, and seings: he giveth wisdom
unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know ing: 2:22 He
revealeth the deep and secret things: he knoweth what is kness, and the light dwelleth with him.

2:23 I thank thee, and praisehou God of my fathers, who hast
given me wisdom and might, and hast manto me now what we
desired of thee: for thou hast now made known unto ng’s
matter.

2:24 Therefore Daniel went in unto Arioch, whom the kiained
to destroy the wise men of Babylon: he went and said thus unto h not the wise men of Babylon: bring me in before the king, and
I will the king the interpretation.

2:25 Then Arioch brought in Daniel beforin haste, and said
thus unto him, I have found a man of the captives oat will
make known unto the king the interpretation.

2:26 The king ansaid to Daniel, whose name was
Belteshazzar, Art thou able to make knothe dream which I
have seen, and the interpretation thereof?  2:27 Dand in
the presence of the king, and said, The secret which the king hat cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, the
soothsayers,ing; 2:28 But there is a God in heaven
that revealeth secrets, and makking Nebuchadnezzar
what shall be in the latter days. Thy dream, and t of thy
head upon thy bed, are these; 2:29 As for thee, O king, thy thme into thy mind upon thy bed, what should come to pass hereafter:
andrevealeth secrets maketh known to thee what shall come to
pass.

2:30  me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom
that I have moreliving, but for their sakes that shall make
known the interpretation t, and that thou mightest know the
thoughts of thy heart.

2:31 Thou, Owest, and behold a great image. This great image,
whose brightness was stood before thee; and the form
thereof was terrible.

2:32 This imag was of fine gold, his breast and his arms of
silver, his belly and hif brass, 2:33 His legs of iron, his
feet part of iron and part of clayu sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which
smote the his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake
them to pieces.

2:35 T iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold,
broken to piecesnd became like the chaff of the summer
threshingfloors; and the wind cm away, that no place was
found for them: and the stone that smote theme a great
mountain, and filled the whole earth.

2:36 This is the drewill tell the interpretation thereof
before the king.

2:37 Thou, O kiking of kings: for the God of heaven hath
given thee a kingdom, power,ngth, and glory.

2:38 And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the he
field and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, ane thee ruler over them all. Thou art this head of gold.

2:39 And aftell arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and
another third kingdom owhich shall bear rule over all the
earth.

2:40 And the fourth kingdomtrong as iron: forasmuch as iron
breaketh in pieces and subdueth all t as iron that breaketh
all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise. whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters’ clay,
and pon, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be in
it of the stree iron, forasmuch as thou sawest the iron
mixed with miry clay.

2:42 toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay,
so the kingdom sartly strong, and partly broken.

2:43 And whereas thou sawest iron miy clay, they shall
mingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shleave one
to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay.

2:44 And is of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a
kingdom, which shalldestroyed: and the kingdom shall not be
left to other people, but it sin pieces and consume all
these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.rasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the
mountain with and that it brake in pieces the iron, the
brass, the clay, the silvergold; the great God hath made
known to the king what shall come to pasr: and the dream is
certain, and the interpretation thereof sure.

2:4e king Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face, and worshipped
Daniel, and cat they should offer an oblation and sweet
odours unto him.

2:47 The red unto Daniel, and said, Of a truth it is, that
your God is a God of a Lord of kings, and a revealer of
secrets, seeing thou couldest reveret.

2:48 Then the king made Daniel a great man, and gave him many gr and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and
chief of ts over all the wise men of Babylon.

2:49 Then Daniel requested of thehe set Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego, over the affairs of the provinon: but Daniel
sat in the gate of the king.

3:1 Nebuchadnezzar the ki image of gold, whose height was
threescore cubits, and the breadth thubits: he set it up in
the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.
ebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the princes,
the governe captains, the judges, the treasurers, the
counsellors, the sheriffs,he rulers of the provinces, to
come to the dedication of the image whidnezzar the king had
set up.

3:3 Then the princes, the governors, andthe judges, the
treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the the
provinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the imagbuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the
image thatet up.

3:4 Then an herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O peopns, and languages, 3:5 That at what time ye hear the sound of the
cornharp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of
musick, ye fall doship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar
the king hath set up: 3:6 Anleth not down and worshippeth
shall the same hour be cast into the midning fiery furnace.

3:7 Therefore at that time, when all the people hnd of the
cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all kinds of muspeople, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshipped
the ge that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

3:8 Wherefore at that timealdeans came near, and accused
the Jews.

3:9 They spake and said to tbuchadnezzar, O king, live for
ever.

3:10 Thou, O king, hast made a dat every man that shall hear
the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sactery, and dulcimer,
and all kinds of musick, shall fall down and worshden image:
3:11 And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth, that he shst into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

3:12 There are certain hou hast set over the affairs of the
province of Babylon, Shadrach, Med Abednego; these men, O
king, have not regarded thee: they serve not or worship the
golden image which thou hast set up.

3:13 Then Nebuchahis rage and fury commanded to bring
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. brought these men before
the king.

3:14 Nebuchadnezzar spake and said, Is it true, O Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego, do not ye serve my gorship the golden
image which I have set up?  3:15 Now if ye be ready tat time
ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psalterimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the image
whicade; well: but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the
same hour into f a burning fiery furnace; and who is that
God that shall deliver you ands?  3:16 Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego, answered and said to the buchadnezzar, we are
not careful to answer thee in this matter.

3:17 , our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the
burning fiery fd he will deliver us out of thine hand, O
king.

3:18 But if not, be io thee, O king, that we will not serve
thy gods, nor worship the goldech thou hast set up.

3:19 Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and t his visage
was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: thereke, and commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven times
mo was wont to be heated.

3:20 And he commanded the most mighty men thais army to
bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them intog fiery furnace.

3:21 Then these men were bound in their coats, theird their
hats, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst ong fiery furnace.

3:22 Therefore because the king’s commandment wasnd the
furnace exceeding hot, the flames of the fire slew those men th Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

3:23 And these three men, Shadrach,nd Abednego, fell down
bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnaThen Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied, and rose up in haste,
and sunto his counsellors, Did not we cast three men
bound into the midst oe? They answered and said unto the
king, True, O king.

3:25 He answer, I see four men loose, walking in the
midst of the fire, and they hav and the form of the fourth
is like the Son of God.

3:26 Then Nebuchame near to the mouth of the burning fiery
furnace, and spake, and said, Meshach, and Abednego, ye
servants of the most high God, come forth,hither. Then
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst re.

3:27 And the princes, governors, and captains, and the king’s
c being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodies
the fire ha, nor was an hair of their head singed, neither
were their coats change smell of fire had passed on them.

3:28 Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, aBlessed be the God of
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent hand
delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the
kd, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor
worship anypt their own God.

3:29 Therefore I make a decree, That every people, guage, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach,
Meshacshall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall
be made a dunghill: becs no other God that can deliver
after this sort.

3:30 Then the king pdrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in the
province of Babylon.

4:1 Nebuchae king, unto all people, nations, and languages,
that dwell in all theace be multiplied unto you.

4:2 I thought it good to shew the signs a that the high God
hath wrought toward me.

4:3 How great are his sign mighty are his wonders! his
kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and hi is from generation
to generation.

4:4 I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest ise, and flourishing in my
palace: 4:5 I saw a dream which made me afrathoughts upon
my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.

4:6 Ther I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon
before me, that thake known unto me the interpretation of
the dream.

4:7 Then came in tns, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and
the soothsayers: and I told thfore them; but they did not
make known unto me the interpretation ther But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was
Belteshazzarg to the name of my God, and in whom is the
spirit of the holy gods: ahim I told the dream, saying, 4:9
O Belteshazzar, master of the magicie I know that the
spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret tr, tell
me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretaf.

4:10 Thus were the visions of mine head in my bed; I saw, and behon the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great.

4:11 The  and was strong, and the height thereof reached
unto heaven, and the sf to the end of all the earth: 4:12
The leaves thereof were fair, and thereof much, and in it
was meat for all: the beasts of the field had r it, and the
fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and all fed
of it.

4:13 I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, beher and an holy one came down from heaven; 4:14 He cried aloud,
and saew down the tree, and cut off his branches, shake off
his leaves, and  fruit: let the beasts get away from under
it, and the fowls from his :15 Nevertheless leave the stump
of his roots in the earth, even with ron and brass, in the
tender grass of the field; and let it be wet witf heaven,
and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the eLet his heart be changed from man’s, and let a beast’s heart be giim; and let seven times pass over him.

4:17 This matter is by the dec watchers, and the demand by
the word of the holy ones: to the intent ing may know that
the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and givehomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.

4:18 Thiking Nebuchadnezzar have seen. Now thou, O
Belteshazzar, declare the iion thereof, forasmuch as all the
wise men of my kingdom are not able wn unto me the
interpretation: but thou art able; for the spirit of th is
in thee.

4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astone
hour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spake, and said,
Belteet not the dream, or the interpretation thereof,
trouble thee. Belteshed and said, My lord, the dream be to
them that hate thee, and the int thereof to thine enemies.

4:20 The tree that thou sawest, which grewtrong, whose
height reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to rth; 4:21 Whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in
ifor all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and
upon whose braowls of the heaven had their habitation: 4:22
It is thou, O king, that and become strong: for thy
greatness is grown, and reacheth unto heavy dominion to the
end of the earth.

4:23 And whereas the king saw a w an holy one coming down
from heaven, and saying, Hew the tree down, at; yet leave
the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a n
and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with
 heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the
field, till sevpass over him; 4:24 This is the
interpretation, O king, and this is ththe most High, which
is come upon my lord the king: 4:25 That they shahee from
men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, hee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with the
dew of heaven times shall pass over thee, till thou know
that the most High ruletngdom of men, and giveth it to
whomsoever he will.

4:26 And whereas tded to leave the stump of the tree roots;
thy kingdom shall be sure unter that thou shalt have known
that the heavens do rule.

4:27 Wherefo, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and
break off thy sins by ris, and thine iniquities by shewing
mercy to the poor; if it may be a lg of thy tranquillity.

4:28 All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezza the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of the
kingdom of Ba:30 The king spake, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I have
be house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for
the honour of?  4:31 While the word was in the king’s
mouth, there fell a voice f saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar,
to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is dom thee.

4:32 And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shh the beasts of the field: they shall make thee to eat grass as
oxen, imes shall pass over thee, until thou know that the
most High ruleth idom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he
will.

4:33 The same hour wng fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and he
was driven from men, and did as oxen, and his body was wet
with the dew of heaven, till his hairs wike eagles’
feathers, and his nails like birds’ claws.

4:34 And aof the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyes
unto heaven, and mineing returned unto me, and I blessed
the most High, and I praised and h that liveth for ever,
whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and  is from
generation to generation: 4:35 And all the inhabitants of thereputed as nothing: and he doeth according to his will in the army
of d among the inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay
his hand, or sim, What doest thou?  4:36 At the same time my
reason returned unto methe glory of my kingdom, mine honour
and brightness returned unto me; ellors and my lords
sought unto me; and I was established in my kingdoellent
majesty was added unto me.

4:37 Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and honour the King of
heaven, all whose works are truth, and his ways jand those
that walk in pride he is able to abase.

5:1 Belshazzar the great feast to a thousand of his lords,
and drank wine before the thouBelshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the
golden avessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken
out of the temple whJerusalem; that the king, and his
princes, his wives, and his concubinrink therein.

5:3 Then they brought the golden vessels that were takee
temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, andes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.

5:4 They drank wineed the gods of gold, and of silver, of
brass, of iron, of wood, and of:5 In the same hour came forth fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote
ov the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of the
king’s palace:ng saw the part of the hand that wrote.

5:6 Then the king’s countenhanged, and his thoughts troubled
him, so that the joints of his loinsed, and his knees smote
one against another.

5:7 The king cried aloud the astrologers, the Chaldeans,
and the soothsayers. And the king spad to the wise men of
Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and s
interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a
chaabout his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the
kingdom.

5:8 Thenll the king’s wise men: but they could not read the
writing, nor mako the king the interpretation thereof.

5:9 Then was king Belshazzar gubled, and his countenance was
changed in him, and his lords were asto0 Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords
came nquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king,
live for ever: let ughts trouble thee, nor let thy
countenance be changed: 5:11 There is hy kingdom, in whom is
the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days ofr light and
understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, wasim; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy
father of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and
soothsayers; 5:12 Forellent spirit, and knowledge, and
understanding, interpreting of dreamwing of hard sentences,
and dissolving of doubts, were found in the sa whom the king
named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he wiinterpretation.

5:13 Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And pake
and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the chilhe captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of
Jewry?  e even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is
in thee, and that understanding and excellent wisdom is
found in thee.

5:15 And now th, the astrologers, have been brought in
before me, that they should reiting, and make known unto me
the interpretation thereof: but they couew the interpretation
of the thing: 5:16 And I have heard of thee, thast make
interpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if thou canst read t and make known to me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt
be clothearlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, and
shalt be the thirdthe kingdom.

5:17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let be
to thyself, and give thy rewards to another; yet I will read the
wr the king, and make known to him the interpretation.

5:18 O thou king high God gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father a
kingdom, and majesty, and ghonour: 5:19 And for the majesty
that he gave him, all people, nationsuages, trembled and
feared before him: whom he would he slew; and whom kept
alive; and whom he would he set up; and whom he would he put dowt when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride,
he wasom his kingly throne, and they took his glory from
him: 5:21 And he warom the sons of men; and his heart was
made like the beasts, and his d with the wild asses: they
fed him with grass like oxen, and his body h the dew of
heaven; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the men, and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will.

5:22 And thou Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart,
though thou knewest all thit hast lifted up thyself against
the Lord of heaven; and they have brossels of his house
before thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, anbines,
have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silvld, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor
knowod in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all thy
ways, hast thou ed: 5:24 Then was the part of the hand sent
from him; and this writingen.

5:25 And this is the writing that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL,.

5:26 This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God hath numbergdom, and finished it.

5:27 TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, d wanting.

5:28 PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medesans.

5:29 Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scaput a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation
concerning he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.

5:30 In that night was  the king of the Chaldeans slain.

5:31 And Darius the Median took thebeing about threescore
and two years old.

6:1 It pleased Darius to see kingdom an hundred and twenty
princes, which should be over the whol 6:2 And over these
three presidents; of whom Daniel was first: that tmight
give accounts unto them, and the king should have no damage.

6:s Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes,
because an exrit was in him; and the king thought to set
him over the whole realm.
he presidents and princes sought to find occasion against
Daniel conceingdom; but they could find none occasion nor
fault; forasmuch as he wul, neither was there any error or
fault found in him.

6:5 Then said We shall not find any occasion against this
Daniel, except we find it im concerning the law of his God.

6:6 Then these presidents and princd together to the king,
and said thus unto him, King Darius, live for ll the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes,
the  and the captains, have consulted together to
establish a royal statutake a firm decree, that whosoever
shall ask a petition of any God or mty days, save of thee,
O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it
be not changed, ac the law of the Medes and Persians, which
altereth not.

6:9 Whereforeius signed the writing and the decree.

6:10 Now when Daniel knew thatng was signed, he went into
his house; and his windows being open in h toward Jerusalem,
he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prgave
thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.

6:11 Then these men , and found Daniel praying and making
supplication before his God.

6:y came near, and spake before the king concerning the
king’s decree; not signed a decree, that every man that
shall ask a petition of any within thirty days, save of
thee, O king, shall be cast into the den ohe king answered
and said, The thing is true, according to the law of  and
Persians, which altereth not.

6:13 Then answered they and said bing, That Daniel, which
is of the children of the captivity of Judah,  not thee, O
king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh hiree times a day.

6:14 Then the king, when he heard these words, was sased
with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and he
ll the going down of the sun to deliver him.

6:15 Then these men asse the king, and said unto the king,
Know, O king, that the law of the Mrsians is, That no
decree nor statute which the king establisheth may .

6:16 Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast himen of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, Thy
God whom thocontinually, he will deliver thee.

6:17 And a stone was brought, and he mouth of the den; and
the king sealed it with his own signet, and wgnet of his
lords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Da18 Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting:
neiinstruments of musick brought before him: and his sleep
went from him.n the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste
unto theons.

6:20 And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voiiel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant
of the lis thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to
deliver thee from t6:21 Then said Daniel unto the king, O
king, live for ever.

6:22 My Gt his angel, and hath shut the lions’ mouths, that
they have not hurasmuch as before him innocency was found in
me; and also before thee, ve I done no hurt.

6:23 Then was the king exceedingly glad for him, ad that
they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he
believedGod.

6:24 And the king commanded, and they brought those men which haDaniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their
childrenr wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, and
brake all their boces or ever they came at the bottom of the
den.

6:25 Then king Dariusto all people, nations, and languages,
that dwell in all the earth; Peplied unto you.

6:26 I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kitremble
and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, ast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed,
and hin shall be even unto the end.

6:27 He delivereth and rescueth, and heigns and wonders in
heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel froer of the
lions.

6:28 So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Dariushe reign
of Cyrus the Persian.

7:1 In the first year of Belshazzar kiylon Daniel had a dream
and visions of his head upon his bed: then he e dream, and
told the sum of the matters.

7:2 Daniel spake and said, my vision by night, and, behold,
the four winds of the heaven strove uat sea.

7:3 And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one f.

7:4 The first was like a lion, and had eagle’s wings: I beheld tigs thereof were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth,
and made the feet as a man, and a man’s heart was given to
it.

7:5 And behobeast, a second, like to a bear, and it raised
up itself on one side, three ribs in the mouth of it
between the teeth of it: and they said tt, Arise, devour
much flesh.

7:6 After this I beheld, and lo another,, which had
upon the back of it four wings of a fowl; the beast had alnd dominion was given to it.

7:7 After this I saw in the night visionld a fourth beast,
dreadful and terrible, and strong exceedingly; and at iron
teeth: it devoured and brake in pieces, and stamped the residu feet of it: and it was diverse from all the beasts that were
before iad ten horns.

7:8 I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns
pby the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like the
eyes of manth speaking great things.

7:9 I beheld till the thrones were cast dowcient of days
did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair olike the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his
wheelg fire.

7:10 A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thsands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand
stood bthe judgment was set, and the books were opened.

7:11 I beheld then bhe voice of the great words which the
horn spake: I beheld even till t slain, and his body
destroyed, and given to the burning flame.

7:12 ing the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion
taken away: yet there prolonged for a season and time.

7:13 I saw in the night visions,d, one like the Son of man
came with the clouds of heaven, and came tot of days, and
they brought him near before him.

7:14 And there was gminion, and glory, and a kingdom, that
all people, nations, and languad serve him: his dominion is
an everlasting dominion, which shall not  and his kingdom
that which shall not be destroyed.

7:15 I Daniel was my spirit in the midst of my body, and
the visions of my head trouble I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the
truth o So he told me, and made me know the interpretation
of the things.

7:at beasts, which are four, are four kings, which shall
arise out of th7:18 But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, and
possegdom for ever, even for ever and ever.

7:19 Then I would know the tru fourth beast, which was
diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadfteeth were of
iron, and his nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pstamped the residue with his feet; 7:20 And of the ten horns that weread, and of the other which came up, and before whom three
fell; even o that had eyes, and a mouth that spake very
great things, whose look wout than his fellows.

7:21 I beheld, and the same horn made war with s, and
prevailed against them; 7:22 Until the Ancient of days came, an was given to the saints of the most High; and the time came
that the sessed the kingdom.

7:23 Thus he said, The fourth beast shall be the gdom upon
earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall dhole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.

7:24 Andorns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall
arise: and another sfter them; and he shall be diverse from
the first, and he shall subduegs.

7:25 And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shhe saints of the most High, and think to change times and
laws: and th given into his hand until a time and times and
the dividing of time.
he judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his
dominion, to consudestroy it unto the end.

7:27 And the kingdom and dominion, and the gthe kingdom
under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of thf
the most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all
domi serve and obey him.

7:28 Hitherto is the end of the matter. As for my
cogitations much troubled me, and my countenance changed in me: but matter in my heart.

8:1 In the third year of the reign of king Belshaon
appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after that which appeared une first.

8:2 And I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, 
at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I sawon, and I was by the river of Ulai.

8:3 Then I lifted up mine eyes, a, behold, there stood
before the river a ram which had two horns: and ns were
high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came u4 I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; so
thand before him, neither was there any that
could deliver out of his hand according to his will, and
became great.

8:5 And as I was considerian he goat came from the west on
the face of the whole earth, and touc ground: and the goat
had a notable horn between his eyes.

8:6 And hehe ram that had two horns, which I had seen
standing before the river,o him in the fury of his power.

8:7 And I saw him come close unto thee was moved with
choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake his and
there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast hime ground, and stamped upon him: and there was none that
could deliver  of his hand.

8:8 Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he
the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones towarwinds of heaven.

8:9 And out of one of them came forth a little horn,d
exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward tland.

8:10 And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and it casof the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon
them.

8:agnified himself even to the prince of the host, and by
him the daily as taken away, and the place of the sanctuary
was cast down.

8:12 And given him against the daily sacrifice by reason
of transgression, and the truth to the ground; and it
practised, and prospered.

8:13 Then  saint speaking, and another saint said unto that
certain saint which ong shall be the vision concerning the
daily sacrifice, and the transg desolation, to give both the
sanctuary and the host to be trodden und14 And he said
unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; thensanctuary be cleansed.

8:15 And it came to pass, when I, even I Danie the vision,
and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood befhe
appearance of a man.

8:16 And I heard a man’s voice between the ai, which
called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the v17 So he came near where I stood: and when he came, I was afraid,
and  face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man:
for at the time shall be the vision.

8:18 Now as he was speaking with me, I was in a on my face
toward the ground: but he touched me, and set me upright.

 said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the
last end of on: for at the time appointed the end shall
be.

8:20 The ram which thaving two horns are the kings of Media
and Persia.

8:21 And the roughe king of Grecia: and the great horn that
is between his eyes is the f22 Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, four
kingdoms  up out of the nation, but not in his power.

8:23 And in the latter t kingdom, when the transgressors
are come to the full, a king of fiercce, and understanding
dark sentences, shall stand up.

8:24 And his po mighty, but not by his own power: and he
shall destroy wonderfully, asper, and practise, and shall
destroy the mighty and the holy people.
rough his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in
his hand; andgnify himself in his heart, and by peace
shall destroy many: he shall up against the Prince of
princes; but he shall be broken without hand.he vision of the evening and the morning which was told is
true: wherehou up the vision; for it shall be for many
days.

8:27 And I Daniel fd was sick certain days; afterward I rose
up, and did the king’s busI was astonished at the vision,
but none understood it.

9:1 In the fi Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of
the Medes, which was madehe realm of the Chaldeans; 9:2 In
the first year of his reign I Daniel by books the number of
the years, whereof the word of the LORD came the prophet,
that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations m.

9:3 And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and
sup, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes: 9:4 And I
prayed unto the LOand made my confession, and said, O Lord,
the great and dreadful God,  covenant and mercy to them
that love him, and to them that keep his c; 9:5 We have
sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickeave
rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgmenr have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which
spake in thygs, our princes, and our fathers, and to
all the people of the land.

, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion
of faces, ay; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, and unto , that are near, and that are far
off, through all the countries whithst driven them, because
of their trespass that they have trespassed ag.

9:8 O Lord, to us belongeth confusion of face, to our kings, to ourand to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee.

9:9 To the Ld belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we
have rebelled against hiither have we obeyed the voice of
the LORD our God, to walk in his lawset before us by his
servants the prophets.

9:11 Yea, all Israel havesed thy law, even by departing,
that they might not obey thy voice; the curse is poured upon
us, and the oath that is written in the law of servant of
God, because we have sinned against him.

9:12 And he hath  his words, which he spake against us, and
against our judges that jud bringing upon us a great evil:
for under the whole heaven hath not behath been done upon
Jerusalem.

9:13 As it is written in the law of Mohis evil is come upon
us: yet made we not our prayer before the LORD oat we might
turn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth.

9:14 hath the LORD watched upon the evil, and brought it
upon us: for the L is righteous in all his works which he
doeth: for we obeyed not his v And now, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people forth out
of thEgypt with a mighty hand, and hast gotten thee renown,
as at this day;sinned, we have done wickedly.

9:16 O LORD, according to all thy righI beseech thee, let
thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy clem, thy
holy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities ors, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that
are abo17 Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his
ss, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is
desolate, fo’s sake.

9:18 O my God, incline thine ear, and hear; open thine eyeold our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name: for
we sent our supplications before thee for our
righteousnesses, but for thcies.

9:19 O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do; def thine own sake, O my God: for thy city and thy people are called
by t9:20 And whiles I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin andf my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the
LORD my  holy mountain of my God; 9:21 Yea, whiles I was
speaking in prayer, en Gabriel, whom I had seen in the
vision at the beginning, being causewiftly, touched me about
the time of the evening oblation.

9:22 And h me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am
now come forth to gill and understanding.

9:23 At the beginning of thy supplications the t came forth,
and I am come to shew thee; for thou art greatly belovedunderstand the matter, and consider the vision.

9:24 Seventy weeks ared upon thy people and upon thy holy
city, to finish the transgressionake an end of sins, and to
make reconciliation for iniquity, and to brlasting
righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to  most Holy.

9:25 Know therefore and understand, that from the going fe
commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the
Pl be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the street
shall be buand the wall, even in troublous times.

9:26 And after threescore and hall Messiah be cut off, but
not for himself: and the people of the prshall come shall
destroy the city and the sanctuary; and the end theree with
a flood, and unto the end of the war desolations are determined he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week: and in
the midsek he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to
cease, and for theing of abominations he shall make it
desolate, even until the consummathat determined shall be
poured upon the desolate.

10:1 In the third rus king of Persia a thing was revealed
unto Daniel, whose name was cashazzar; and the thing was
true, but the time appointed was long: and ng,
and had understanding of the vision.

10:2 In those days I Daniel ng three full weeks.

10:3 I ate no pleasant bread, neither came fleshin my mouth,
neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weekilled.

10:4 And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as he side of the great river, which is Hiddekel; 10:5 Then I lifted up
mand looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen,
whose loins werth fine gold of Uphaz: 10:6 His body also
was like the beryl, and his  appearance of lightning, and
his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms t like in colour to
polished brass, and the voice of his words like tha
multitude.

10:7 And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that me
saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, so that th hide themselves.

10:8 Therefore I was left alone, and saw this greatd there
remained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in meption, and I retained no strength.

10:9 Yet heard I the voice of his  when I heard the voice of
his words, then was I in a deep sleep on mymy face toward
the ground.

10:10 And, behold, an hand touched me, whipon my knees and
upon the palms of my hands.

10:11 And he said unto ml, a man greatly beloved, understand
the words that I speak unto thee,upright: for unto thee am
I now sent.

And when he had spoken this worI stood trembling.

10:12 Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for st day
that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten tore thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words.

10:13prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one and
twenty days: but,el, one of the chief princes, came to help
me; and I remained there wigs of Persia.

10:14 Now I am come to make thee understand what shall 
people in the latter days: for yet the vision is for many days.

10:1 he had spoken such words unto me, I set my face toward
the ground, andumb.

10:16 And, behold, one like the similitude of the sons of men tips: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and said unto him that
stood bO my lord, by the vision my sorrows are turned upon
me, and I have rettrength.

10:17 For how can the servant of this my lord talk with thisfor as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neither
ieath left in me.

10:18 Then there came again and touched me one like ance of
a man, and he strengthened me, 10:19 And said, O man greatly bar not: peace be unto thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when he
hadto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak;
for thou hast ed me.

10:20 Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I come unto thee? al I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I am gone
fortrince of Grecia shall come.

10:21 But I will shew thee that which is the scripture of
truth: and there is none that holdeth with me in thesut
Michael your prince.

11:1 Also I in the first year of Darius the M stood to
confirm and to strengthen him.

11:2 And now will I shew theth. Behold, there shall stand up
yet three kings in Persia; and the fobe far richer than
they all: and by his strength through his riches hep all
against the realm of Grecia.

11:3 And a mighty king shall standhall rule with great
dominion, and do according to his will.

11:4 Andall stand up, his kingdom shall be broken, and
shall be divided towardwinds of heaven; and not to his
posterity, nor according to his dominie ruled: for his
kingdom shall be plucked up, even for others beside t5 And the king of the south shall be strong, and one of his
princes; a be strong above him, and have dominion; his
dominion shall be a great
11:6 And in the end of years they shall join themselves together; fors daughter of the south shall come to the king of the north
to make nt: but she shall not retain the power of the arm;
neither shall he stis arm: but she shall be given up, and
they that brought her, and he tr, and he that strengthened
her in these times.

11:7 But out of a brar roots shall one stand up in his
estate, which shall come with an arml enter into the
fortress of the king of the north, and shall deal agashall prevail: 11:8 And shall also carry captives into Egypt their
godinces, and with their precious vessels of silver
and of gold; and he snue more years than the king of the
north.

11:9 So the king of the soome into his kingdom, and shall
return into his own land.

11:10 But hhall be stirred up, and shall assemble a multitude
of great forces: an certainly come, and overflow, and pass
through: then shall he return,irred up, even to his
fortress.

11:11 And the king of the south shall with choler, and shall
come forth and fight with him, even with the knorth: and he
shall set forth a great multitude; but the multitude shan
into his hand.

11:12 And when he hath taken away the multitude, hisl be
lifted up; and he shall cast down many ten thousands: but he shaltrengthened by it.

11:13 For the king of the north shall return, and orth a
multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come aft years with a great army and with much riches.

11:14 And in those timhall many stand up against the king of
the south: also the robbers of e shall exalt themselves to
establish the vision; but they shall fall.o the king of the north shall come, and cast up a mount, and
take the  cities: and the arms of the south shall not
withstand, neither his che, neither shall there be any
strength to withstand.

11:16 But he thagainst him shall do according to his own
will, and none shall stand beand he shall stand in the
glorious land, which by his hand shall be co1:17 He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of his
whol and upright ones with him; thus shall he do: and he
shall give him th of women, corrupting her: but she shall
not stand on his side, neithehim.

11:18 After this shall he turn his face unto the isles, and shaly: but a prince for his own behalf shall cause the reproach offered
byase; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turn
upon him.

11: shall turn his face toward the fort of his own land: but
he shall stuall, and not be found.

11:20 Then shall stand up in his estate a raiss in the glory
of the kingdom: but within few days he shall be destroyr in
anger, nor in battle.

11:21 And in his estate shall stand up a v, to whom they
shall not give the honour of the kingdom: but he shall ceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.

11:22 And with the armsd shall they be overflown from before
him, and shall be broken; yea, ance of the covenant.

11:23 And after the league made with him he shalitfully:
for he shall come up, and shall become strong with a small pe24 He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the
provin shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor
his fathers’ fatall scatter among them the prey, and spoil,
and riches: yea, and he shst his devices against the strong
holds, even for a time.

11:25 And hr up his power and his courage against the king
of the south with a grand the king of the south shall be
stirred up to battle with a very grhty army; but he shall
not stand: for they shall forecast devices agai:26 Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall destroy
him, y shall overflow: and many shall fall down slain.

11:27 And both of t’ hearts shall be to do mischief, and
they shall speak lies at one tt shall not prosper: for yet
the end shall be at the time appointed.

shall he return into his land with great riches; and his
heart shall bhe holy covenant; and he shall do exploits,
and return to his own landthe time appointed he shall return, and come toward the
south; but it be as the former, or as the latter.

11:30 For the ships of Chittim shgainst him: therefore he
shall be grieved, and return, and have indignst the holy
covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have ie
with them that forsake the holy covenant.

11:31 And arms shall stanart, and they shall pollute the
sanctuary of strength, and shall take daily sacrifice, and
they shall place the abomination that maketh deso And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by
flatt the people that do know their God shall be strong, and
do exploits.
 they that understand among the people shall instruct many:
yet they srd, and by flame, by captivity, and by
spoil, many days.

11:34 Now whall fall, they shall be holpen with a little
help: but many shall cleawith flatteries.

11:35 And some of them of understanding shall fall, , and
to purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: bis yet for a time appointed.

11:36 And the king shall do according toand he shall exalt
himself, and magnify himself above every god, and smarvellous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the
e accomplished: for that that is determined shall be
done.

11:37 Neite regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire
of women, nor regard a he shall magnify himself above all.

11:38 But in his estate shall he God of forces: and a god
whom his fathers knew not shall he honour wid silver, and
with precious stones, and pleasant things.

11:39 Thus sin the most strong holds with a strange god,
whom he shall acknowledgese with glory: and he shall cause
them to rule over many, and shall diand for gain.

11:40 And at the time of the end shall the king of the  at
him: and the king of the north shall come against him like a
whirl chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships; and
he shall enter untries, and shall overflow and pass over.

11:41 He shall enter also lorious land, and many countries
shall be overthrown: but these shall of his hand, even
Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Amm He shall stretch forth his hand also upon the countries: and the
landhall not escape.

11:43 But he shall have power over the treasures of f
silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt: and the Libyans aopians shall be at his steps.

11:44 But tidings out of the east and orth shall trouble
him: therefore he shall go forth with great fury to nd
utterly to make away many.

11:45 And he shall plant the tabernaclelace between the
seas in the glorious holy mountain; yet he shall come, and
none shall help him.

12:1 And at that time shall Michael stand t prince which
standeth for the children of thy people: and there shal of
trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that snd at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that
shall been in the book.

12:2 And many of them that sleep in the dust of the e awake,
some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting co:3 And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the
firmamen that turn many to righteousness as the stars for
ever and ever.

12:4 Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to
the time of theshall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be
increased.

12:5 Then I Dd, and, behold, there stood other two, the one
on this side of the banver, and the other on that side of
the bank of the river.

12:6 And onhe man clothed in linen, which was upon the
waters of the river, How lt be to the end of these wonders?
12:7 And I heard the man clothed in  was upon the waters
of the river, when he held up his right hand and d unto
heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be  times, and an half; and when he shall have accomplished to
scatter ththe holy people, all these things shall be
finished.

12:8 And I hearderstood not: then said I, O my Lord, what
shall be the end of these th9 And he said, Go thy way,
Daniel: for the words are closed up and seahe time of the
end.

12:10 Many shall be purified, and made white, andt the
wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understan wise shall understand.

12:11 And from the time that the daily sacrifbe taken away,
and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there thousand two hundred and ninety days.

12:12 Blessed is he that waiteteth to the thousand three
hundred and five and thirty days.

12:13 Buthy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest,
and stand in thy lot at tthe days.




Hosea


1:1 The word of the LORD that came unto Hosea, teeri, in
the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judahe days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.

1:2 The beginniord of the LORD by Hosea. And the LORD said
to Hosea, Go, take unto thedoms and children of
whoredoms: for the land hath committed great who from
the LORD.

1:3 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaimceived, and bare him a son.

1:4 And the LORD said unto him, Call his l; for yet a
little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel uponof
Jehu, and will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel.

 shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow
of Israel, ey of Jezreel.

1:6 And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And to
him, Call her name Loruhamah: for I will no more have mercy upon thIsrael; but I will utterly take them away.

1:7 But I will have mercy ouse of Judah, and will save them
by the LORD their God, and will not  bow, nor by sword,
nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen.

1:8 No had weaned Loruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son.

1:9 Then said Gs name Loammi: for ye are not my people, and
I will not be your God.

he number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of
the sea, w be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to
pass, that in the placwas said unto them, Ye are not my
people, there it shall be said unto e the sons of the
living God.

1:11 Then shall the children of Judah adren of Israel be
gathered together, and appoint themselves one head, all
come up out of the land: for great shall be the day of Jezreel.

2unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.

2:2 Plead wither, plead: for she is not my wife, neither am
I her husband: let her ut away her whoredoms out of her
sight, and her adulteries from betweests; 2:3 Lest I strip
her naked, and set her as in the day that she wa make her
as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and slay her w

2:4 And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they be the
chihoredoms.

2:5 For their mother hath played the harlot: she that concehath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that
giead and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my
drink.

2:6 Theold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and make a
wall, that she shd her paths.

2:7 And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shallke
them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them: then shall I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better
with .

2:8 For she did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, aed her silver and gold, which they prepared for Baal.

2:9 Therefore wn, and take away my corn in the time
thereof, and my wine in the seasoand will recover my wool
and my flax given to cover her nakedness.

2:will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers,
and none shalher out of mine hand.

2:11 I will also cause all her mirth to cease, ays, her new
moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts.

2:12ll destroy her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath
said, These ads that my lovers have given me: and I will
make them a forest, and th the field shall eat them.

2:13 And I will visit upon her the days ofherein she burned
incense to them, and she decked herself with her earer
jewels, and she went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the LORerefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the
wilderness,comfortably unto her.

2:15 And I will give her her vineyards from thehe valley of
Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as inof
her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of
EgAnd it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call
me Ihalt call me no more Baali.

2:17 For I will take away the names of Ba her mouth, and
they shall no more be remembered by their name.

2:18  day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts
of the field and owls of heaven, and with the creeping
things of the ground: and I will bow and the sword and the
battle out of the earth, and will make themwn safely.

2:19 And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I willhee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness,
ies.

2:20 I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou  the LORD.

2:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, sRD, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; 2:22 And
tthe corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they
shall hear Jezreel.

2:2ll sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy
upon her that hined mercy; and I will say to them which
were not my people, Thou art and they shall say, Thou art
my God.

3:1 Then said the LORD unto me, e a woman beloved of her
friend, yet an adulteress, according to the l LORD toward
the children of Israel, who look to other gods, and love ine.

3:2 So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for f barley, and an half homer of barley: 3:3 And I said unto her,
Thou sfor me many days; thou shalt not play the harlot, and
thou shalt not br man: so will I also be for thee.

3:4 For the children of Israel shany days without a king,
and without a prince, and without a sacrifice,ut an image,
and without an ephod, and without teraphim: 3:5 Afterward
children of Israel return, and seek the LORD their God, and David
thend shall fear the LORD and his goodness in the latter
days.

4:1 Hear f the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD
hath a controversy witbitants of the land, because there is
no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledin the land.

4:2 By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, aing
adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood.

4:3 Therefore land mourn, and every one that dwelleth
therein shall languish, with s of the field, and with the
fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sall be taken away.

4:4 Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: foe are as
they that strive with the priest.

4:5 Therefore shalt thou fe day, and the prophet also shall
fall with thee in the night, and I wthy mother.

4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: becaus
rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no
pr: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will
also forget th

4:7 As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore wiltheir glory into shame.

4:8 They eat up the sin of my people, and ther heart on
their iniquity.

4:9 And there shall be, like people, like d I will punish
them for their ways, and reward them their doings.

4:y shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit
whoredom, and shalease: because they have left off to take
heed to the LORD.

4:11 Whorene and new wine take away the heart.

4:12 My people ask counsel at th and their staff declareth
unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hathem to err, and
they have gone a whoring from under their God.

4:13 Thce upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense
upon the hills, und poplars and elms, because the shadow
thereof is good: therefore yourshall commit whoredom, and
your spouses shall commit adultery.

4:14 Iish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor
your spouses when thadultery: for themselves are separated
with whores, and they sacrifices: therefore the people
that doth not understand shall fall.

4:15 ThoIsrael, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend;
and come not ye untneither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear,
The LORD liveth.

4:16 For Isth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD
will feed them as a lamb place.

4:17 Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.

4:18 Their dr: they have committed whoredom continually:
her rulers with shame do  ye.

4:19 The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be
ause of their sacrifices.

5:1 Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, y Israel; and give
ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward se ye
have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.

5:2 Alters are profound to make slaughter, though I have
been a rebuker of 

5:3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraimmittest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.

5:4 They will not frame theo turn unto their God: for the
spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of they have not known
the LORD.

5:5 And the pride of Israel doth testifce: therefore shall
Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity: Judah afall with
them.

5:6 They shall go with their flocks and with their he the
LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself fromey have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have
begotten s: now shall a month devour them with their
portions.

5:8 Blow ye the Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud
at Bethaven, after thee, O

5:9 Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribesave I made known that which shall surely be.

5:10 The princes of Judake them that remove the bound:
therefore I will pour out my wrath uponwater.

5:11 Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he wlked after the commandment.

5:12 Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as d to the house of
Judah as rottenness.

5:13 When Ephraim saw his sickudah saw his wound, then went
Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to kinet could he not heal
you, nor cure you of your wound.

5:14 For I willhraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the
house of Judah: I, even I, and go away; I will take away,
and none shall rescue him.

5:15 I wileturn to my place, till they acknowledge their
offence, and seek my far affliction they will seek me
early.

6:1 Come, and let us return untD: for he hath torn, and he
will heal us; he hath smitten, and he willp.

6:2 After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raiand we shall live in his sight.

6:3 Then shall we know, if we follow  the LORD: his going
forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall cos as the
rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.

6:4 O Ept shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do
unto thee? for your gs a morning cloud, and as the early
dew it goeth away.

6:5 Therefore wed them by the prophets; I have slain them by
the words of my mouth: dgments are as the light that goeth
forth.

6:6 For I desired mercy, acrifice; and the knowledge of God
more than burnt offerings.

6:7 But n have transgressed the covenant: there have they
dealt treacherously e.

6:8 Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, and is polluted w
6:9 And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priestn the way by consent: for they commit lewdness.

6:10 I have seen an hng in the house of Israel: there is
the whoredom of Ephraim, Israel is
6:11 Also, O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned
ity of my people.

7:1 When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquraim was
discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit fand the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoileth without.

7: consider not in their hearts that I remember all their
wickedness: non doings have beset them about; they are
before my face.

7:3 They mak glad with their wickedness, and the princes
with their lies.

7:4 Thedulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who
ceaseth from raising af kneaded the dough, until it be
leavened.

7:5 In the day of our king s have made him sick with bottles
of wine; he stretched out his hand wrs.

7:6 For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles theait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth
as fire.

7:7 They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judgesr kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.

7:, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake
not turnedangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea,
gray hae and there upon him, yet he knoweth not.

7:10 And the pride of Israeth to his face: and they do not
return to the LORD their God, nor seekl this.

7:11 Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they ca, they go to Assyria.

7:12 When they shall go, I will spread my net u will bring
them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them
congregation hath heard.

7:13 Woe unto them! for they have fled fromction unto them!
because they have transgressed against me: though I hed
them, yet they have spoken lies against me.

7:14 And they have not me with their heart, when they
howled upon their beds: they assemble for corn and wine,
and they rebel against me.

7:15 Though I have bounngthened their arms, yet do they
imagine mischief against me.

7:16 Th but not to the most High: they are like a deceitful
bow: their princel by the sword for the rage of their
tongue: this shall be their derisgypt.

8:1 Set the trumpet to thy mouth. He shall come as an eagle agaouse of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant, and
tresnst my law.

8:2 Israel shall cry unto me, My God, we know thee.

8:3 h cast off the thing that is good: the enemy shall
pursue him.

8:4 Th up kings, but not by me: they have made princes, and
I knew it not: over and their gold have they made them
idols, that they may be cut offy calf, O Samaria, hath cast thee off; mine anger is kindled
against tong will it be ere they attain to innocency?  8:6
For from Israel was e workman made it; therefore it is not
God: but the calf of Samaria shken in pieces.

8:7 For they have sown the wind, and they shall reap tnd: it
hath no stalk; the bud shall yield no meal: if so be it yield, rs shall swallow it up.

8:8 Israel is swallowed up: now shall they beGentiles as a
vessel wherein is no pleasure.

8:9 For they are gone upa, a wild ass alone by himself:
Ephraim hath hired lovers.

8:10 Yea, y have hired among the nations, now will I gather
them, and they shalllittle for the burden of the king of
princes.

8:11 Because Ephraim hany altars to sin, altars shall be
unto him to sin.

8:12 I have writtehe great things of my law, but they were
counted as a strange thing.

sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of mine offerings, and
eat it; but accepteth them not; now will he remember their
iniquity, and visit thehey shall return to Egypt.

8:14 For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, h temples; and
Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a is
cities, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.

9:1 Rejoice not, for joy, as other people: for thou hast
gone a whoring from thy God, tved a reward upon every
cornfloor.

9:2 The floor and the winepress shd them, and the new wine
shall fail in her.

9:3 They shall not dwell D’s land; but Ephraim shall return
to Egypt, and they shall eat uncls in Assyria.

9:4 They shall not offer wine offerings to the LORD, ne
they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as theourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their
bread for tall not come into the house of the LORD.

9:5 What will ye do in the sand in the day of the feast of
the LORD?  9:6 For, lo, they are gone bestruction: Egypt
shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: the pes for
their silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns shall be in thcles.

9:7 The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence areel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is mad,
fortude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred.

9:8 The watchman of Ephth my God: but the prophet is a
snare of a fowler in all his ways, andhe house of his God.

9:9 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as inof Gibeah:
therefore he will remember their iniquity, he will visit th
9:10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathersstripe in the fig tree at her first time: but they went to
Baalpeor, ad themselves unto that shame; and their
abominations were according as.

9:11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from tnd from the womb, and from the conception.

9:12 Though they bring up ren, yet will I bereave them,
that there shall not be a man left: yea,o them when I
depart from them!  9:13 Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus, is plansant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the
murderere them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying
womb and s.

9:15 All their wickedness is in Gilgal: for there I hated them: fodness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I
will lovere: all their princes are revolters.

9:16 Ephraim is smitten, their red up, they shall bear no
fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet wilen the beloved
fruit of their womb.

9:17 My God will cast them away, y did not hearken unto
him: and they shall be wanderers among the natiIsrael is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself:
accordimultitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars;
according to the  his land they have made goodly images.

10:2 Their heart is divided;  be found faulty: he shall
break down their altars, he shall spoil theFor now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not
the LORen should a king do to us?  10:4 They have spoken
words, swearing falsing a covenant: thus judgment springeth
up as hemlock in the furrows o

10:5 The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of
or the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests
thereof tha it, for the glory thereof, because it is
departed from it.

10:6 It sso carried unto Assyria for a present to king
Jareb: Ephraim shall rece, and Israel shall be ashamed of his
own counsel.

10:7 As for Samari is cut off as the foam upon the water.

10:8 The high places also of in of Israel, shall be
destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall comer altars;
and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hion us.

10:9 O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not
overta10:10 It is in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people
shered against them, when they shall bind themselves in
their two furroAnd Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught, and loveth to tread
out th I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make
Ephraim to ride; Judah  and Jacob shall break his clods.

10:12 Sow to yourselves in righteou in mercy; break up your
fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LOR come and rain
righteousness upon you.

10:13 Ye have plowed wickednesreaped iniquity; ye have
eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst t way, in the
multitude of thy mighty men.

10:14 Therefore shall a tumong thy people, and all thy
fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman sparbel in the day
of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon her c10:15 So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.

11:1 When Israel was a  I loved him, and called my son out
of Egypt.

11:2 As they called they went from them: they sacrificed unto
Baalim, and burned incense to ges.

11:3 I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but not that I healed them.

11:4 I drew them with cords of a man, with ba: and I was to
them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and t
unto them.

11:5 He shall not return into the land of Egypt, and thehall be his king, because they refused to return.

11:6 And the sword e on his cities, and shall consume his
branches, and devour them, becar own counsels.

11:7 And my people are bent to backsliding from me: tcalled
them to the most High, none at all would exalt him.

11:8 How se thee up, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee,
Israel?  how shall I makdmah? how shall I set thee as
Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, gs are kindled
together.

11:9 I will not execute the fierceness of miill not
return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holye midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city.

11:10 They shall the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when
he shall roar, then the chil tremble from the west.

11:11 They shall tremble as a bird out of Eg a dove out of
the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their hou the
LORD.

11:12 Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the housewith deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the
s1 Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he
daily lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with
the Assyrians, carried into Egypt.

12:2 The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah,punish
Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he
rem.

12:3 He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strenpower with God: 12:4 Yea, he had power over the angel, and
prevailed: nd made supplication unto him: he found him in
Bethel, and there he sp; 12:5 Even the LORD God of hosts;
the LORD is his memorial.

12:6 Then thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment and wait
on thy God continu He is a merchant, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he
loveth t
12:8 And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out
subsll my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that
were sin.

12:9ORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet
make thee to dwell in tabe in the days of the solemn feast.

12:10 I have also spoken by the proI have multiplied
visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of th

12:11 Is there iniquity in Gilead? surely they are vanity: they
sacrcks in Gilgal; yea, their altars are as heaps in the
furrows of the fi2 And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for
a wi a wife he kept sheep.

12:13 And by a prophet the LORD brought Israelypt, and by a
prophet was he preserved.

12:14 Ephraim provoked him to bitterly: therefore shall he
leave his blood upon him, and his reproais LORD return unto
him.

13:1 When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalten Israel; but
when he offended in Baal, he died.

13:2 And now they simore, and have made them molten images
of their silver, and idols accotheir own understanding, all
of it the work of the craftsmen: they sayt the men that
sacrifice kiss the calves.

13:3 Therefore they shall brning cloud and as the early dew
that passeth away, as the chaff that ith the whirlwind out
of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimneet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt
know nme: for there is no saviour beside me.

13:5 I did know thee in the wiin the land of great drought.

13:6 According to their pasture, so werlled; they were
filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have then me.

13:7 Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by ill I observe them: 13:8 I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved
ops, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I
devour theion: the wild beast shall tear them.

13:9 O Israel, thou hast destroyf; but in me is thine help.

13:10 I will be thy king: where is any otay save thee in all
thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Giing and
princes?  13:11 I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took himmy wrath.

13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hid.
 sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an
unwise soe should not stay long in the place of the breaking
forth of children.will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem
them from eath, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be
thy destruction: repen be hid from mine eyes.

13:15 Though he be fruitful among his brethre wind shall
come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderne
spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shalltreasure of all pleasant vessels.

13:16 Samaria shall become desolatehath rebelled against her
God: they shall fall by the sword: their inf be dashed in
pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.

ael, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by
thine iniqu2 Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take
away ay, and receive us graciously: so will we render the
calves of our lipsshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither
will we re to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in
thee the fatherle mercy.

14:4 I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine
anger is turned away from him.

14:5 I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and
cast forth his roots as Lebanon.

14:6 His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive
tree, and his smell as Lebanon.

14:7 They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive
as the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the
wine of Lebanon.

14:8 Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have
heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree. From me is
thy fruit found.

14:9 Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and
he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, and the just
shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.




Joel


1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.

1:2 Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land.

Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers?  1:3
Tell ye your children of it, and let your children tell their
children, and their children another generation.

1:4 That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; and
that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that
which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpiller eaten.

1:5 Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and howl, all ye drinkers of wine,
because of the new wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.

1:6 For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number,
whose teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek teeth of a
great lion.

1:7 He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig tree: he hath made
it clean bare, and cast it away; the bra are made white.

1:8 Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for t of her
youth.

1:9 The meat offering and the drink offering is cut ofhouse
of the LORD; the priests, the LORD’s ministers, mourn.

1:10 T wasted, the land mourneth; for the corn is wasted:
the new wine is dr oil languisheth.

1:11 Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen; howl, O ye vinfor the
wheat and for the barley; because the harvest of the field is
1:12 The vine is dried up, and the fig tree languisheth; the
pomegranahe palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all the
trees of the fieldred: because joy is withered away from
the sons of men.

1:13 Gird yound lament, ye priests: howl, ye ministers of
the altar: come, lie all ckcloth, ye ministers of my God:
for the meat offering and the drink owithholden from the
house of your God.

1:14 Sanctify ye a fast, call ssembly, gather the elders and
all the inhabitants of the land into th the LORD your God,
and cry unto the LORD, 1:15 Alas for the day! for  the LORD
is at hand, and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it  Is not the meat cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladness
from t our God?  1:17 The seed is rotten under their clods,
the garners are ate, the barns are broken down; for the corn
is withered.

1:18 How do groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed,
because they have no pasture flocks of sheep are made
desolate.

1:19 O LORD, to thee will I cry:re hath devoured the
pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath buhe trees of
the field.

1:20 The beasts of the field cry also unto the rivers of
waters are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pasturelderness.

2:1 Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my hn: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of
the LORor it is nigh at hand; 2:2 A day of darkness and of
gloominess, a day nd of thick darkness, as the morning
spread upon the mountains: a gread a strong; there hath not
been ever the like, neither shall be any mo, even to the
years of many generations.

2:3 A fire devoureth before ehind them a flame burneth: the
land is as the garden of Eden before tehind them a desolate
wilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them.
pearance of them is as the appearance of horses; and as
horsemen, so sun.

2:5 Like the noise of chariots on the tops of mountains shall thee the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as
a strongin battle array.

2:6 Before their face the people shall be much paines shall
gather blackness.

2:7 They shall run like mighty men; they shthe wall like men
of war; and they shall march every one on his ways, y shall not
break their ranks: 2:8 Neither shall one thrust another; talk every one in his path: and when they fall upon the sword, they
shawounded.

2:9 They shall run to and fro in the city; they shall run up, they shall climb up upon the houses; they shall enter in at the
windthief.

2:10 The earth shall quake before them; the heavens shall tremn and the moon shall be dark, and the stars shall withdraw their
shinid the LORD shall utter his voice before his army: for
his camp is veryr he is strong that executeth his word: for
the day of the LORD is grey terrible; and who can abide it?
2:12 Therefore also now, saith the Lye even to me with all
your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping,ourning:
2:13 And rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unt your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of
greanteth him of the evil.

2:14 Who knoweth if he will return and repent,a blessing
behind him; even a meat offering and a drink offering unto r God?  2:15 Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a
solemn 2:16 Gather the people, sanctify the congregation,
assemble the eldershe children, and those that suck the
breasts: let the bridegroom go fochamber, and the bride out
of her closet.

2:17 Let the priests, the mf the LORD, weep between the
porch and the altar, and let them say, Spople, O LORD, and
give not thine heritage to reproach, that the heatheule over
them: wherefore should they say among the people, Where is th:18 Then will the LORD be jealous for his land, and pity his people.

the LORD will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I will
send you ine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith:
and I will no more reproach among the heathen: 2:20 But I
will remove far off from you tharmy, and will drive him
into a land barren and desolate, with his fache east sea,
and his hinder part toward the utmost sea, and his stink up, and his ill savour shall come up, because he hath done great
thingear not, O land; be glad and rejoice: for the LORD will do great
thinge not afraid, ye beasts of the field: for the pastures of the
wilderneng, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree and
the vine do yieldgth.

2:23 Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD  for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he will
cause t for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter
rain in the first m And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall
overflow wid oil.

2:25 And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath cankerworm, and the caterpiller, and the palmerworm, my great army
whimong you.

2:26 And ye shall eat in plenty, and be satisfied, and prai
of the LORD your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you: and my
peonever be ashamed.

2:27 And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Ishat I am
the LORD your God, and none else: and my people shall never b

2:28 And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my
spall flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall
prophesy, your old meam dreams, your young men shall see
visions: 2:29 And also upon the sd upon the handmaids in
those days will I pour out my spirit.

2:30 Anew wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood,
and fire, and pilla.

2:31 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into bloode great and terrible day of the LORD come.

2:32 And it shall come to osoever shall call on the name
of the LORD shall be delivered: for in and in Jerusalem
shall be deliverance, as the LORD hath said, and in twhom
the LORD shall call.

3:1 For, behold, in those days, and in thaten I shall bring
again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, 3:2 I wilher all
nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphl plead with them there for my people and for my heritage Israel,
whomscattered among the nations, and parted my land.

3:3 And they have ca my people; and have given a boy for an
harlot, and sold a girl for wihey might drink.

3:4 Yea, and what have ye to do with me, O Tyre, and all
the coasts of Palestine? will ye render me a recompence? and if ye me, swiftly and speedily will I return your recompence upon
your own Because ye have taken my silver and my gold, and
have carried into yomy goodly pleasant things: 3:6 The
children also of Judah and the chilrusalem have ye sold unto
the Grecians, that ye might remove them far border.

3:7 Behold, I will raise them out of the place whither ye hav, and will return your recompence upon your own head: 3:8 And I
will sns and your daughters into the hand of the children
of Judah, and they them to the Sabeans, to a people far
off: for the LORD hath spoken itaim ye this among the Gentiles; Prepare war, wake up the
mighty men, lmen of war draw near; let them come up: 3:10
Beat your plowshares intod your pruninghooks into spears:
let the weak say, I am strong.

3:11 ourselves, and come, all ye heathen, and gather
yourselves together roher cause thy mighty ones to come
down, O LORD.

3:12 Let the heathen ome up to the valley of
Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge allen round
about.

3:13 Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: cu
down; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickedness

3:14 Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day o is near in the valley of decision.

3:15 The sun and the moon shall b and the stars shall
withdraw their shining.

3:16 The LORD also shallof Zion, and utter his voice from
Jerusalem; and the heavens and the eshake: but the LORD
will be the hope of his people, and the strength oren of
Israel.

3:17 So shall ye know that I am the LORD your God dwelon, my
holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall no pass through her any more.

3:18 And it shall come to pass in that daountains shall
drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk,e
rivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall come
fo the house of the LORD, and shall water the valley of
Shittim.

3:19 Ebe a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate
wilderness, for the violt the children of Judah, because
they have shed innocent blood in thei:20 But Judah shall dwell for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to
g

3:21 For I will cleanse their blood that I have not cleansed: for thlleth in Zion.




Amos


1:1 The words of Amos, who was among the herkoa, which he
saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judathe
days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years beforequake.

1:2 And he said, The LORD will roar from Zion, and utter his verusalem; and the habitations of the shepherds shall mourn, and
the to shall wither.

1:3 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Dd for
four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they hed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron: 1:4 But I will
send a fhe house of Hazael, which shall devour the palaces
of Benhadad.

1:5 I also the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant
from the plain ond him that holdeth the sceptre from the
house of Eden: and the peoplehall go into captivity unto
Kir, saith the LORD.

1:6 Thus saith the L three transgressions of Gaza, and for
four, I will not turn away the  thereof; because they
carried away captive the whole captivity, to de up to Edom:
1:7 But I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, which shathe
palaces thereof: 1:8 And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdodthat holdeth the sceptre from Ashkelon, and I will turn mine
hand agai and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish,
saith the Lord GOD.
saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Tyrus, and for
four, I wil away the punishment thereof; because they
delivered up the whole captdom, and remembered not the
brotherly covenant: 1:10 But I will send ae wall of Tyrus,
which shall devour the palaces thereof.

1:11 Thus saRD; For three transgressions of Edom, and for
four, I will not turn awshment thereof; because he did
pursue his brother with the sword, and ff all pity, and his
anger did tear perpetually, and he kept his wrath 1:12 But I
will send a fire upon Teman, which shall devour the palace.

1:13 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of the children and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof;
because theed up the women with child of Gilead, that they
might enlarge their bout I will kindle a fire in the wall
of Rabbah, and it shall devour thehereof, with shouting in
the day of battle, with a tempest in the day lwind: 1:15
And their king shall go into captivity, he and his princessaith the LORD.

2:1 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of for
four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burnnes of the king of Edom into lime: 2:2 But I will send a fire
upon Moahall devour the palaces of Kirioth: and Moab shall
die with tumult, wi, and with the sound of the trumpet: 2:3
And I will cut off the judge dst thereof, and will slay all
the princes thereof with him, saith the4 Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Judah, and for
fourot turn away the punishment thereof; because they have
despised the la have not kept his commandments, and
their lies caused them to err, aftheir fathers have
walked: 2:5 But I will send a fire upon Judah, and evour the
palaces of Jerusalem.

2:6 Thus saith the LORD; For three trs of Israel, and for
four, I will not turn away the punishment thereofthey sold
the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes; nt after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn
aside the meek: and a man and his father will go in unto
the same maid, to holy name: 2:8 And they lay themselves
down upon clothes laid to pledg altar, and they drink the
wine of the condemned in the house of their Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the
he cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed
his fruit fromd his roots from beneath.

2:10 Also I brought you up from the land of led you forty
years through the wilderness, to possess the land of th

2:11 And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young meites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the
LORD.

2gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded the
prophets, saying, ot.

2:13 Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed that isheaves.

2:14 Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and thall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver
himselfher shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he
that is swift of footdeliver himself: neither shall he that
rideth the horse deliver himselnd he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked
in thah the LORD.

3:1 Hear this word that the LORD hath spoken against you,en
of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the lant, saying, 3:2 You only have I known of all the families of the
earth: I will punish you for all your iniquities.

3:3 Can two walk togetherey be agreed?  3:4 Will a lion
roar in the forest, when he hath no preyoung lion cry out of
his den, if he have taken nothing?  3:5 Can a bi a snare
upon the earth, where no gin is for him?  shall one take up a the earth, and have taken nothing at all?  3:6 Shall a trumpet be
bloity, and the people not be afraid?  shall there be evil
in a city, andhath not done it?  3:7 Surely the Lord GOD
will do nothing, but he rev secret unto his servants the
prophets.

3:8 The lion hath roared, whofear? the Lord GOD hath spoken,
who can but prophesy?  3:9 Publish in s at Ashdod, and in
the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assembles upon
the mountains of Samaria, and behold the great tumults in the eof, and the oppressed in the midst thereof.

3:10 For they know not t saith the LORD, who store up
violence and robbery in their palaces.

re thus saith the Lord GOD; An adversary there shall be
even round abo and he shall bring down thy strength from
thee, and thy palaces shall3:12 Thus saith the LORD; As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth of
to legs, or a piece of an ear; so shall the children of
Israel be takendwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, and
in Damascus in a couch.

ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord GOD,
the God of 4 That in the day that I shall visit the
transgressions of Israel uponl also visit the altars of
Bethel: and the horns of the altar shall beand fall to the
ground.

3:15 And I will smite the winter house with t house; and the
houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shaend,
saith the LORD.

4:1 Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, that are ntain of
Samaria, which oppress the poor, which crush the needy, whichir masters, Bring, and let us drink.

4:2 The Lord GOD hath sworn by hs, that, lo, the days shall
come upon you, that he will take you away , and your
posterity with fishhooks.

4:3 And ye shall go out at the bvery cow at that which is
before her; and ye shall cast them into the ith the LORD.

4:4 Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply on;
and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after thr:5 And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and
proclaim and free offerings: for this liketh you, O ye
children of Israel, saith t6 And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities,
andin all your places: yet have ye not returned unto
me, saith the LORD.
lso I have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet
three monharvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city,
and caused it not to rnother city: one piece was rained
upon, and the piece whereupon it raihered.

4:8 So two or three cities wandered unto one city, to drink waey were not satisfied: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the
LORave smitten you with blasting and mildew: when your gardens and
your vnd your fig trees and your olive trees increased, the
palmerworm devouet have ye not returned unto me, saith the
LORD.

4:10 I have sent amoestilence after the manner of Egypt:
your young men have I slain with and have taken away your
horses; and I have made the stink of your cam up unto your
nostrils: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LO have overthrown some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and
Gomorrah, ands a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet
have ye not returned unt the LORD.

4:12 Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: and becl
do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.

4:13 For, lo,rmeth the mountains, and createth the wind,
and declareth unto man whaought, that maketh the morning
darkness, and treadeth upon the high pl earth, The LORD,
The God of hosts, is his name.

5:1 Hear ye this wor take up against you, even a lamentation,
O house of Israel.

5:2 The srael is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is
forsaken upon her landnone to raise her up.

5:3 For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that by a thousand
shall leave an hundred, and that which went forth by an all
leave ten, to the house of Israel.

5:4 For thus saith the LORD une of Israel, Seek ye me, and
ye shall live: 5:5 But seek not Bethel, nnto Gilgal, and
pass not to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into, and
Bethel shall come to nought.

5:6 Seek the LORD, and ye shall li break out like fire in
the house of Joseph, and devour it, and there  quench it in
Bethel.

5:7 Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leaveousness in
the earth, 5:8 Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orirneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark
wihat calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them
out upon the fearth: The LORD is his name: 5:9 That
strengtheneth the spoiled agains, so that the spoiled
shall come against the fortress.

5:10 They haterebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that
speaketh uprightly.

5:1 therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and ye
take from him bureat: ye have built houses of hewn stone,
but ye shall not dwell in the planted pleasant vineyards,
but ye shall not drink wine of them.

5:1ow your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins:
they afflict the take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor
in the gate from their righerefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it is
an evi:14 Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, the
Go shall be with you, as ye have spoken.

5:15 Hate the evil, and love tnd establish judgment in the
gate: it may be that the LORD God of hostacious unto the
remnant of Joseph.

5:16 Therefore the LORD, the God oe LORD, saith thus;
Wailing shall be in all streets; and they shall sae
highways, Alas! alas!  and they shall call the husbandman to mourninh as are skilful of lamentation to wailing.

5:17 And in all vineyardswailing: for I will pass through
thee, saith the LORD.

5:18 Woe unto desire the day of the LORD! to what end is it
for you? the day of the ness, and not light.

5:19 As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bea or went
into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpen

5:20 Shall not the day of the LORD be darkness, and not light? even
 and no brightness in it?  5:21 I hate, I despise your feast
days, andt smell in your solemn assemblies.

5:22 Though ye offer me burnt offeour meat offerings, I
will not accept them: neither will I regard the rings of
your fat beasts.

5:23 Take thou away from me the noise of thor I will not
hear the melody of thy viols.

5:24 But let judgment runrighteousness as a
mighty stream.

5:25 Have ye offered unto me sacrifferings in the
wilderness forty years, O house of Israel?  5:26 But ye the
tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your ye made to yourselves.

5:27 Therefore will I cause you to go into cayond Damascus,
saith the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.

6:1 Wothat are at ease in Zion, and trust in the mountain of
Samaria, which  chief of the nations, to whom the house of
Israel came!  6:2 Pass ye h, and see; and from thence go ye
to Hamath the great: then go down to the Philistines: be they
better than these kingdoms? or their border your border?
6:3 Ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seate
to come near; 6:4 That lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselver couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves
out of tf the stall; 6:5 That chant to the sound of the
viol, and invent to thstruments of musick, like David; 6:6
That drink wine in bowls, and anoves with the chief
ointments: but they are not grieved for the afflicteph.

6:7 Therefore now shall they go captive with the first that go
cd the banquet of them that stretched themselves shall be
removed.

6:8GOD hath sworn by himself, saith the LORD the God of
hosts, I abhor thcy of Jacob, and hate his palaces:
therefore will I deliver up the citthat is therein.

6:9 And it shall come to pass, if there remain ten mhouse,
that they shall die.

6:10 And a man’s uncle shall take him uhat burneth him, to
bring out the bones out of the house, and shall sa that is
by the sides of the house, Is there yet any with thee? and he No. Then shall he say, Hold thy tongue: for we may not make
mention oof the LORD.

6:11 For, behold, the LORD commandeth, and he will smite
house with breaches, and the little house with clefts.

6:12 Shall hon the rock? will one plow there with oxen?
for ye have turned judgment, and the fruit of righteousness
into hemlock: 6:13 Ye which rejoice iof nought, which say,
Have we not taken to us horns by our own strengtt, behold,
I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, saD the God of hosts; and they shall afflict you from the entering in
ofto the river of the wilderness.

7:1 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed untbehold, he formed
grasshoppers in the beginning of the shooting up of growth;
and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king’s mowings.
t came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the
grass of hen I said, O Lord GOD, forgive, I beseech thee:
by whom shall Jacob ahe is small.

7:3 The LORD repented for this: It shall not be, saith t
7:4 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and, behold, the Lord GOD
ontend by fire, and it devoured the great deep, and did eat
up a part. said I, O Lord GOD, cease, I beseech thee: by whom shall
Jacob arise? small.

7:6 The LORD repented for this: This also shall not be, saith
GOD.

7:7 Thus he shewed me: and, behold, the LORD stood upon a wall lumbline, with a plumbline in his hand.

7:8 And the LORD said unto me seest thou? And I said, A
plumbline. Then said the LORD, Behold, I wiumbline in the
midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by the: 7:9
And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuarl shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of
Jeroboam word.

7:10 Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of
ing, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the
house of Isrnd is not able to bear all his words.

7:11 For thus Amos saith, Jerobie by the sword, and Israel
shall surely be led away captive out of th.

7:12 Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thee away ind of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there: 7:13 But
prophes any more at Bethel: for it is the king’s chapel,
and it is the king

7:14 Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet,
neit prophet’s son; but I was an herdman, and a gatherer of
sycomore frund the LORD took me as I followed the flock, and
the LORD said unto mehesy unto my people Israel.

7:16 Now therefore hear thou the word of u sayest,
Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not thy word against t.

7:17 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Thy wife shall be an harlot in  thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy
land shaled by line; and thou shalt die in a polluted land:
and Israel shall suo captivity forth of his land.

8:1 Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed untohold a basket of
summer fruit.

8:2 And he said, Amos, what seest thoud, A basket of summer
fruit. Then said the LORD unto me, The end is co people of
Israel; I will not again pass by them any more.

8:3 And th the temple shall be howlings in that day, saith
the Lord GOD: there sny dead bodies in every place; they
shall cast them forth with silencer this, O ye that swallow up the needy, even to make the poor
of the l 8:5 Saying, When will the new moon be gone, that
we may sell corn? anath, that we may set forth wheat, making
the ephah small, and the shekand falsifying the balances by
deceit?  8:6 That we may buy the poor f and the needy for a
pair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the whhe LORD
hath sworn by the excellency of Jacob, Surely I will never for their works.

8:8 Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one 
dwelleth therein? and it shall rise up wholly as a flood; and it shalut and drowned, as by the flood of Egypt.

8:9 And it shall come to paday, saith the Lord GOD, that I
will cause the sun to go down at noon, darken the earth in
the clear day: 8:10 And I will turn your feasts ing, and all
your songs into lamentation; and I will bring up sackclothloins, and baldness upon every head; and I will make it as the
mourniny son, and the end thereof as a bitter day.

8:11 Behold, the days come Lord GOD, that I will send a
famine in the land, not a famine of brehirst for water, but
of hearing the words of the LORD: 8:12 And they s from sea
to sea, and from the north even to the east, they shall run 
to seek the word of the LORD, and shall not find it.

8:13 In that dae fair virgins and young men faint for
thirst.

8:14 They that swear bof Samaria, and say, Thy god, O Dan,
liveth; and, The manner of Beersh; even they shall fall, and
never rise up again.

9:1 I saw the LORD sn the altar: and he said, Smite the
lintel of the door, that the posts: and cut them in the
head, all of them; and I will slay the last of the sword: he
that fleeth of them shall not flee away, and he that escaem
shall not be delivered.

9:2 Though they dig into hell, thence shal take them;
though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them d And
though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search aem out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the
bottom of tence will I command the serpent, and he shall
bite them: 9:4 And thougnto captivity before their enemies,
thence will I command the sword, al slay them: and I will
set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for nd the Lord GOD of hosts is he that toucheth the land, and it
shall me that dwell therein shall mourn: and it shall rise
up wholly like a flhall be drowned, as by the flood of
Egypt.

9:6 It is he that buildethes in the heaven, and hath founded
his troop in the earth; he that cale waters of the sea, and
poureth them out upon the face of the earth:  his name.

9:7 Are ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O chIsrael? saith the LORD. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land
od the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?
9:8 Behold,  the Lord GOD are upon the sinful kingdom, and
I will destroy it from e of the earth; saving that I will
not utterly destroy the house of Jah the LORD.

9:9 For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house ofong
all nations, like as corn is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the
 fall upon the earth.

9:10 All the sinners of my people shall die by hich say,
The evil shall not overtake nor prevent us.

9:11 In that daraise up the tabernacle of David that is
fallen, and close up the breaf; and I will raise up his
ruins, and I will build it as in the days o2 That they may
possess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, wlled
by my name, saith the LORD that doeth this.

9:13 Behold, the day LORD, that the plowman shall
overtake the reaper, and the treader of at soweth seed;
and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hmelt.

9:14 And I will bring again the captivity of my people of Israey shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shall
plant, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make
gardens, and eat th them.

9:15 And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no lled up out of their land which I have given them, saith the LORD
thy badiah


1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Thus saith the Lord GOD concerninghave heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent among
theArise ye, and let us rise up against her in battle.

1:2 Behold, I hav small among the heathen: thou art greatly
despised.

1:3 The pride oft hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in
the clefts of the rock, whon is high; that saith in his
heart, Who shall bring me down to the gr Though thou exalt
thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest stars,
thence will I bring thee down, saith the LORD.

1:5 If thieves e, if robbers by night, (how art thou cut
off!)  would they not have s they had enough? if the
grapegatherers came to thee, would they not lapes?  1:6
How are the things of Esau searched out! how are his hiddenught up!  1:7 All the men of thy confederacy have brought thee even
tor: the men that were at peace with thee have deceived
thee, and prevait thee; that they eat thy bread have laid a
wound under thee: there isrstanding in him.

1:8 Shall I not in that day, saith the LORD, even d wise men
out of Edom, and understanding out of the mount of Esau?  1:mighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, to the end that every one of
tf Esau may be cut off by slaughter.

1:10 For thy violence against thyacob shame shall cover
thee, and thou shalt be cut off for ever.

1:11 that thou stoodest on the other side, in the day that
the strangers cy captive his forces, and foreigners entered
into his gates, and cast erusalem, even thou wast as one of
them.

1:12 But thou shouldest not  the day of thy brother in
the day that he became a stranger; neither thou have
rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their desteither shouldest thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress.

1:1dest not have entered into the gate of my people in the
day of their ca, thou shouldest not have looked on their
affliction in the day of thy, nor have laid hands on their
substance in the day of their calamityther shouldest thou
have stood in the crossway, to cut off those of hiescape;
neither shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that didhe day of distress.

1:15 For the day of the LORD is near upon all theas thou
hast done, it shall be done unto thee: thy reward shall returne own head.

1:16 For as ye have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shallthen drink continually, yea, they shall drink, and they shall
swallow ey shall be as though they had not been.

1:17 But upon mount Zion shaance, and there shall be
holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possesssessions.

1:18 And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the houseflame, and the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall kindle in
theur them; and there shall not be any remaining of the
house of Esau; fo hath spoken it.

1:19 And they of the south shall possess the mount od they
of the plain the Philistines: and they shall possess the fields, and the fields of Samaria: and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.

1:20 tivity of this host of the children of Israel shall
possess that of ths, even unto Zarephath; and the captivity
of Jerusalem, which is in Sell possess the cities of the
south.

1:21 And saviours shall come up on to judge the mount of
Esau; and the kingdom shall be the LORD’s.


1:1 Now the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the son of Amittai,
sayise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it;
for their wickcome up before me.

1:3 But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from t of the
LORD, and went down to Joppa; and he found a ship going to Tare paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them
unto T presence of the LORD.

1:4 But the LORD sent out a great wind into thd there was a
mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to 

1:5 Then the mariners were afraid, and cried every man unto his god, forth the wares that were in the ship into the sea, to
lighten it of Jonah was gone down into the sides of the
ship; and he lay, and was fa
1:6 So the shipmaster came to him, and said unto him, What meanest
th arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will
think upon us, that  not.

1:7 And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us casat we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast
lotslot fell upon Jonah.

1:8 Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray those cause
this evil is upon us; What is thine occupation? and whence c? what is thy country? and of what people art thou?  1:9 And he
said uI am an Hebrew; and I fear the LORD, the God of
heaven, which hath madnd the dry land.

1:10 Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said y hast
thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presenceD, because he had told them.

1:11 Then said they unto him, What shall thee, that the sea
may be calm unto us? for the sea wrought, and was .

1:12 And he said unto them, Take me up, and cast me forth into the
ll the sea be calm unto you: for I know that for my sake
this great teon you.

1:13 Nevertheless the men rowed hard to bring it to the land;ould not: for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous against them.

1:14 they cried unto the LORD, and said, We beseech thee, O
LORD, we besee us not perish for this man’s life, and lay
not upon us innocent blohou, O LORD, hast done as it pleased
thee.

1:15 So they look up Jonah him forth into the sea: and the
sea ceased from her raging.

1:16 Theeared the LORD exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice
unto the LORD, and.

1:17 Now the LORD had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. Ans in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.

2:1 Then Jonanto the LORD his God out of the fish’s belly,
2:2 And said, I cried of mine affliction unto the LORD, and
he heard me; out of the belly of I, and thou heardest my
voice.

2:3 For thou hadst cast me into the d midst of the seas;
and the floods compassed me about: all thy billowsves
passed over me.

2:4 Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet ok again
toward thy holy temple.

2:5 The waters compassed me about, ee soul: the depth closed
me round about, the weeds were wrapped about 
2:6 I went down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with her
b about me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my life from
corruption,  God.

2:7 When my soul fainted within me I remembered the LORD: and mame in unto thee, into thine holy temple.

2:8 They that observe lyingrsake their own mercy.

2:9 But I will sacrifice unto thee with the vonksgiving; I
will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the LORD the LORD spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon
the dry lAnd the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the second time, saying,
3:2 unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the
preaching that I
3:3 So Jonah arose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of
tow Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days’
journey.

3:4 began to enter into the city a day’s journey, and he
cried, and saidy days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown.

3:5 So the people of NinevehGod, and proclaimed a fast, and
put on sackcloth, from the greatest ofto the least of them.

3:6 For word came unto the king of Nineveh, androm his
throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered him with sand sat in ashes.

3:7 And he caused it to be proclaimed and published eveh by
the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man, herd nor flock, taste any thing: let them not feed, nor drink
water:et man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and cry
mightily unto God:them turn every one from his evil way, and
from the violence that is inds.

3:9 Who can tell if God will turn and repent, and turn away frome anger, that we perish not?  3:10 And God saw their works, that
they m their evil way; and God repented of the evil, that he
had said that ; and he did it not.

4:1 But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he gry.

4:2 And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD, is my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled
before un: for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and
merciful, slow to angereat kindness, and repentest thee of
the evil.

4:3 Therefore now, O LOI beseech thee, my life from me; for
it is better for me to die than t:4 Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry?  4:5 So Jonah
went city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there
made him a boot under it in the shadow, till he might see
what would become of the cind the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over
Jonah, tht be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from
his grief. So Jonah ng glad of the gourd.

4:7 But God prepared a worm when the morning ro day, and it
smote the gourd that it withered.

4:8 And it came to pase sun did arise, that God prepared a
vehement east wind; and the sun bhead of Jonah, that he
fainted, and wished in himself to die, and saidetter for me
to die than to live.

4:9 And God said to Jonah, Doest thbe angry for the gourd?
And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto :10 Then said the LORD, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the
whichnot laboured, neither madest it grow; which came up in
a night, and pea night: 4:11 And should not I spare Nineveh,
that great city, whereinhen sixscore thousand persons that
cannot discern between their right eir left hand; and also
much cattle?




Micah


1:1 The word of the Lame to Micah the Morasthite in the
days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah,udah, which he saw
concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.

1:2 Hear, all yeearken, O earth, and all that therein is:
and let the Lord GOD be witnt you, the LORD from his holy
temple.

1:3 For, behold, the LORD comett of his place, and will come
down, and tread upon the high places of 

1:4 And the mountains shall be molten under him, and the valleys shaft, as wax before the fire, and as the waters that are poured
down a s.

1:5 For the transgression of Jacob is all this, and for the sins of of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? is it not
Samaria? andhe high places of Judah? are they not
Jerusalem?  1:6 Therefore I willria as an heap of the field,
and as plantings of a vineyard: and I wiln the stones
thereof into the valley, and I will discover the foundati.

1:7 And all the graven images thereof shall be beaten to pieces, anhires thereof shall be burned with the fire, and all the idols
thereofay desolate: for she gathered it of the hire of an
harlot, and they shto the hire of an harlot.

1:8 Therefore I will wail and howl, I will  and naked: I
will make a wailing like the dragons, and mourning as th:9 For her wound is incurable; for it is come unto Judah; he is come
ute of my people, even to Jerusalem.

1:10 Declare ye it not at Gath, wat all: in the house of
Aphrah roll thyself in the dust.

1:11 Pass yeu inhabitant of Saphir, having thy shame naked:
the inhabitant of Zaan forth in the mourning of Bethezel;
he shall receive of you his standior the inhabitant of Maroth waited carefully for good: but evil
came de LORD unto the gate of Jerusalem.

1:13 O thou inhabitant of Lachish,hariot to the swift
beast: she is the beginning of the sin to the daugon: for
the transgressions of Israel were found in thee.

1:14 Therefohou give presents to Moreshethgath: the houses
of Achzib shall be a ligs of Israel.

1:15 Yet will I bring an heir unto thee, O inhabitant o: he
shall come unto Adullam the glory of Israel.

1:16 Make thee baldthee for thy delicate children; enlarge
thy baldness as the eagle; forone into captivity from thee.

2:1 Woe to them that devise iniquity, al upon their beds!
when the morning is light, they practise it, becaus the
power of their hand.

2:2 And they covet fields, and take them by and houses, and
take them away: so they oppress a man and his house, and
his heritage.

2:3 Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, against y do I
devise an evil, from which ye shall not remove your necks; neit haughtily: for this time is evil.

2:4 In that day shall one take up t you, and lament
with a doleful lamentation, and say, We be utterly s hath
changed the portion of my people: how hath he removed it from meaway he hath divided our fields.

2:5 Therefore thou shalt have none tcast a cord by lot in
the congregation of the LORD.

2:6 Prophesy ye ney to them that prophesy: they shall not
prophesy to them, that they ske shame.

2:7 O thou that art named the house of Jacob, is the spiritD straitened? are these his doings? do not my words do good to him
tharightly?  2:8 Even of late my people is risen up as an
enemy: ye pull be with the garment from them that pass by
securely as men averse fromThe women of my people have ye cast out from their pleasant
houses; frhildren have ye taken away my glory for ever.

2:10 Arise ye, and depais is not your rest: because it is
polluted, it shall destroy you, eveore destruction.

2:11 If a man walking in the spirit and falsehood dong, I
will prophesy unto thee of wine and of strong drink; he shall evprophet of this people.

2:12 I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of l surely
gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as theBozrah, as the flock in the midst of their fold: they shall make greatreason of the multitude of men.

2:13 The breaker is come up before thave broken up, and have
passed through the gate, and are gone out by ieir king shall
pass before them, and the LORD on the head of them.

3:id, Hear, I pray you, O heads of Jacob, and ye princes of
the house of it not for you to know judgment?  3:2 Who hate
the good, and love the pluck off their skin from off them,
and their flesh from off their boho also eat the flesh of my
people, and flay their skin from off them;eak their bones,
and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as fleshe
caldron.

3:4 Then shall they cry unto the LORD, but he will not hea
will even hide his face from them at that time, as they have behaved
 ill in their doings.

3:5 Thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets my people
err, that bite with their teeth, and cry, Peace; and he thaot into their mouths, they even prepare war against him.

3:6 Thereforall be unto you, that ye shall not have a
vision; and it shall be dark that ye shall not divine; and
the sun shall go down over the prophetsy shall be dark
over them.

3:7 Then shall the seers be ashamed, and t confounded: yea,
they shall all cover their lips; for there is no ans.

3:8 But truly I am full of power by the spirit of the LORD, and of
nd of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and
to Israel hi9 Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and princes
oe of Israel, that abhor judgment, and pervert all equity.

3:10 They bon with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity.

3:11 The heads thereof juard, and the priests thereof teach
for hire, and the prophets thereof  money: yet will they
lean upon the LORD, and say, Is not the LORD amoevil can
come upon us.

3:12 Therefore shall Zion for your sake be ploeld, and
Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house aplaces of the forest.

4:1 But in the last days it shall come to pass,ountain of
the house of the LORD shall be established in the top of ths, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall
flow untoAnd many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to
the mothe LORD, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he
will teach us o and we will walk in his paths: for the law
shall go forth of Zion, an of the LORD from Jerusalem.

4:3 And he shall judge among many peopleke strong nations
afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowd their
spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up a sword agan, neither shall they learn war any more.

4:4 But they shall sit ever his vine and under his fig
tree; and none shall make them afraid: forh of the LORD of
hosts hath spoken it.

4:5 For all people will walk e the name of his god, and we
will walk in the name of the LORD our Godnd ever.

4:6 In that day, saith the LORD, will I assemble her that haI will gather her that is driven out, and her that I have afflicted;
4 that halted a remnant, and her that was cast
far off a strong nation:ORD shall reign over them in mount
Zion from henceforth, even for everthou, O tower of the flock, the strong hold of the daughter of
Zion, uhall it come, even the first dominion; the kingdom
shall come to the d Jerusalem.

4:9 Now why dost thou cry out aloud? is there no king in y
counsellor perished? for pangs have taken thee as a woman in travailin pain, and labour to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a
woman i for now shalt thou go forth out of the city, and
thou shalt dwell in and thou shalt go even to Babylon;
there shalt thou be delivered; thershall redeem thee from
the hand of thine enemies.

4:11 Now also many e gathered against thee, that say, Let
her be defiled, and let our eye Zion.

4:12 But they know not the thoughts of the LORD, neither undery his counsel: for he shall gather them as the sheaves into the
floor.ise and thresh, O daughter of Zion: for I will make thine horn
iron, a make thy hoofs brass: and thou shalt beat in pieces
many people: and ecrate their gain unto the LORD, and their
substance unto the Lord of earth.

5:1 Now gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops: he hat against us: they shall smite the judge of Israel with a rod upon
the 2 But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the
thousadah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that
is to be ruler ihose goings forth have been from of old,
from everlasting.

5:3 Therefe give them up, until the time that she which
travaileth hath brought n the remnant of his brethren shall
return unto the children of Israelhe shall stand and feed in the strength of the LORD, in the
majesty ofof the LORD his God; and they shall abide: for now
shall he be great uds of the earth.

5:5 And this man shall be the peace, when the Assyriome into
our land: and when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall gainst him seven shepherds, and eight principal men.

5:6 And they sha land of Assyria with the sword, and the
land of Nimrod in the entranc: thus shall he deliver us from
the Assyrian, when he cometh into our hen he treadeth
within our borders.

5:7 And the remnant of Jacob shale midst of many people as a
dew from the LORD, as the showers upon thet tarrieth not
for man, nor waiteth for the sons of men.

5:8 And the  Jacob shall be among the Gentiles in the midst
of many people as a lihe beasts of the forest, as a young
lion among the flocks of sheep: who through, both treadeth
down, and teareth in pieces, and none can delThine hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all
thine enl be cut off.

5:10 And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LI
will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroyts: 5:11 And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and
throw down allg holds: 5:12 And I will cut off witchcrafts
out of thine hand; and thve no more soothsayers: 5:13 Thy
graven images also will I cut off, anding images out of the
midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship tthine hands.

5:14 And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of ill
I destroy thy cities.

5:15 And I will execute vengeance in anger on the heathen,
such as they have not heard.

6:1 Hear ye now what the Arise, contend thou before the
mountains, and let the hills hear thy 2 Hear ye, O mountains, the LORD’s controversy, and ye strong
foundae earth: for the LORD hath a controversy with his
people, and he will  Israel.

6:3 O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein havd thee? testify against me.

6:4 For I brought thee up out of the landd redeemed thee
out of the house of servants; and I sent before thee Mn, and
Miriam.

6:5 O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab  and
what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim unto Gilgalay know the righteousness of the LORD.

6:6 Wherewith shall I come befRD, and bow myself before the
high God? shall I come before him with bings, with calves of
a year old?  6:7 Will the LORD be pleased with th rams, or
with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my firstbonsgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?  6:8 He
hath an, what is good; and what doth the LORD require
of thee, but to do juto love mercy, and to walk humbly with
thy God?  6:9 The LORD’s voicnto the city, and the man of
wisdom shall see thy name: hear ye the ro hath appointed it.

6:10 Are there yet the treasures of wickedness ine of the
wicked, and the scant measure that is abominable?  6:11 Shallhem pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful
weighFor the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the
inhabitants thepoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in
their mouth.

6:13 Therefll I make thee sick in smiting thee, in making
thee desolate because o
6:14 Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy casting down shallmidst of thee; and thou shalt take hold, but shalt not
deliver; and thou deliverest will I give up to the sword.

6:15 Thou shalt sow, but tnot reap; thou shalt tread the
olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee nd sweet wine, but
shalt not drink wine.

6:16 For the statutes of Omrand all the works of the house
of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels;should make thee a
desolation, and the inhabitants thereof an hissing:e shall
bear the reproach of my people.

7:1 Woe is me! for I am as wh gathered the summer fruits,
as the grapegleanings of the vintage: theter to eat: my
soul desired the firstripe fruit.

7:2 The good man is t of the earth: and there is none
upright among men: they all lie in wood; they hunt every man
his brother with a net.

7:3 That they may do both hands earnestly, the prince
asketh, and the judge asketh for a rthe great man, he
uttereth his mischievous desire: so they wrap it up.est of them is as a brier: the most upright is sharper than a
thorn hey of thy watchmen and thy visitation cometh; now
shall be their perpleTrust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence in a guide: keep
the d mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom.

7:6 For the son dishonourethr, the daughter riseth up
against her mother, the daughter in law agaither in law; a
man’s enemies are the men of his own house.

7:7 Therl look unto the LORD; I will wait for the God of my
salvation: my God me.

7:8 Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arI sit in darkness, the LORD shall be a light unto me.

7:9 I will bearnation of the LORD, because I have sinned
against him, until he plead nd execute judgment for me: he
will bring me forth to the light, and Ild his
righteousness.

7:10 Then she that is mine enemy shall see it, hall cover
her which said unto me, Where is the LORD thy God? mine eyeold her: now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets.

7:ay that thy walls are to be built, in that day shall the
decree be far7:12 In that day also he shall come even to thee from Assyria, and
froified cities, and from the fortress even to the river,
and from sea torom mountain to mountain.

7:13 Notwithstanding the land shall be desoe of them that
dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.

7:14 Feee with thy rod, the flock of thine heritage, which
dwell solitarily inin the midst of Carmel: let them feed in
Bashan and Gilead, as in the .

7:15 According to the days of thy coming out of the land of Egypt wnto him marvellous things.

7:16 The nations shall see and be confoundeir might: they
shall lay their hand upon their mouth, their ears shal

7:17 They shall lick the dust like a serpent, they shall move out ofs like worms of the earth: they shall be afraid of the LORD
our God, aear because of thee.

7:18 Who is a God like unto thee, that pardonethand passeth
by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he re
his anger for ever, because he delighteth in mercy.

7:19 He will ture will have compassion upon us; he will
subdue our iniquities; and tho all their sins into the
depths of the sea.

7:20 Thou wilt perform th Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham,
which thou hast sworn unto our fathe the days of old.




Nahum


1:1 The burden of Nineveh. The book of tf Nahum the Elkoshite.

1:2 God is jealous, and the LORD revengeth; thengeth, and is
furious; the LORD will take vengeance on his adversarie wrath for his enemies.

1:3 The LORD is slow to anger, and great in pll not at all
acquit the wicked: the LORD hath his way in the whirlwinhe
storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.

1:4 He rebuketh th maketh it dry, and drieth up all the
rivers: Bashan languisheth, and d the flower of Lebanon
languisheth.

1:5 The mountains quake at him, ls melt, and the earth is
burned at his presence, yea, the world, and ll therein.

1:6 Who can stand before his indignation? and who can abiierceness of his anger? his fury is poured out like fire, and the
rockn down by him.

1:7 The LORD is good, a strong hold in the day of troue
knoweth them that trust in him.

1:8 But with an overrunning flood h an utter end of the
place thereof, and darkness shall pursue his enemhat do ye imagine against the LORD? he will make an utter end:
afflict not rise up the second time.

1:10 For while they be folden together and while they are
drunken as drunkards, they shall be devoured as stu dry.

1:11 There is one come out of thee, that imagineth evil against a wicked counsellor.

1:12 Thus saith the LORD; Though they be quiet,se many, yet
thus shall they be cut down, when he shall pass through. ave
afflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more.

1:13 For now will I oke from off thee, and will burst thy
bonds in sunder.

1:14 And the Liven a commandment concerning thee, that no
more of thy name be sown:  house of thy gods will I cut off
the graven image and the molten imagmake thy grave; for thou
art vile.

1:15 Behold upon the mountains them that bringeth good
tidings, that publisheth peace! O Judah, keep thysts,
perform thy vows: for the wicked shall no more pass through thee;rly cut off.

2:1 He that dasheth in pieces is come up before thy face
munition, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power
mig For the LORD hath turned away the excellency of Jacob, as the
excelleel: for the emptiers have emptied them out, and
marred their vine branThe shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in
scarlariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his
preparation, anrees shall be terribly shaken.

2:4 The chariots shall rage in the strshall justle one
against another in the broad ways: they shall seem li, they
shall run like the lightnings.

2:5 He shall recount his worthiall stumble in their walk;
they shall make haste to the wall thereof, ence shall be
prepared.

2:6 The gates of the rivers shall be opened, ace shall be
dissolved.

2:7 And Huzzab shall be led away captive, sheought up, and
her maids shall lead her as with the voice of doves, tabheir breasts.

2:8 But Nineveh is of old like a pool of water: yet the
away.

Stand, stand, shall they cry; but none shall look back.

2:9 T spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold: for there is
none end of theglory out of all the pleasant furniture.

2:10 She is empty, and void, and the heart melteth, and the
knees smite together, and much pain isns, and the faces of
them all gather blackness.

2:11 Where is the dwee lions, and the feedingplace of the
young lions, where the lion, evenn, walked, and the lion’s
whelp, and none made them afraid?  2:12 Thtear in pieces
enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, his
holes with prey, and his dens with ravin.

2:13 Behold, I am agai saith the LORD of hosts, and I will
burn her chariots in the smoke, ad shall devour thy young
lions: and I will cut off thy prey from the ehe voice of
thy messengers shall no more be heard.

3:1 Woe to the blot is all full of lies and robbery; the
prey departeth not; 3:2 The noiip, and the noise of the
rattling of the wheels, and of the pransing hof the jumping
chariots.

3:3 The horseman lifteth up both the bright e glittering
spear: and there is a multitude of slain, and a great numses; and there is none end of their corpses; they stumble upon
their c Because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the
wellfavoured harlot,s of witchcrafts, that selleth nations
through her whoredoms, and famih her witchcrafts.

3:5 Behold, I am against thee, saith the LORD of hill
discover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thyhe kingdoms thy shame.

3:6 And I will cast abominable filth upon theethee vile,
and will set thee as a gazingstock.

3:7 And it shall come at all they that look upon thee shall
flee from thee, and say, Ninevehaste: who will bemoan her?
whence shall I seek comforters for thee?  3better than
populous No, that was situate among the rivers, that had tound about it, whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was from the
seiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite;
Put and Lubim lpers.

3:10 Yet was she carried away, she went into captivity: her yoen also were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets: and
they or her honourable men, and all her great men were
bound in chains.

3:o shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid, thou also shalt
seek strength be enemy.

3:12 All thy strong holds shall be like fig trees with the fs: if they be shaken, they shall even fall into the mouth of the
eaterold, thy people in the midst of thee are women: the gates of
thy land et wide open unto thine enemies: the fire shall
devour thy bars.

3:14waters for the siege, fortify thy strong holds: go into
clay, and trear, make strong the brickkiln.

3:15 There shall the fire devour thee; shall cut thee off,
it shall eat thee up like the cankerworm: make thyas the
cankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts.

3:16 Thou hast mhy merchants above the stars of heaven: the
cankerworm spoileth, and f.

3:17 Thy crowned are as the locusts, and thy captains as the great
rs, which camp in the hedges in the cold day, but when the
sun arisethaway, and their place is not known where they
are.

3:18 Thy shepherdsO king of Assyria: thy nobles shall dwell
in the dust: thy people is son the mountains, and no man
gathereth them.

3:19 There is no healingise; thy wound is grievous: all
that hear the bruit of thee shall clapover thee: for upon
whom hath not thy wickedness passed continually?

k


1:1 The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.

1:2 O LORD, hol I cry, and thou wilt not hear! even cry out
unto thee of violence, a not save!  1:3 Why dost thou shew
me iniquity, and cause me to behold? for spoiling and
violence are before me: and there are that raise up
contention.

1:4 Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth neve
for the wicked doth compass about the righteous; therefore wrong
judgdeth.

1:5 Behold ye among the heathen, and regard, and wonder marveloI will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, though
it b

1:6 For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation,l march through the breadth of the land, to possess the
dwellingplaces not theirs.

1:7 They are terrible and dreadful: their judgment and tty
shall proceed of themselves.

1:8 Their horses also are swifter thaopards, and are more
fierce than the evening wolves: and their horsemeead
themselves, and their horsemen shall come from far; they shall flyle that hasteth to eat.

1:9 They shall come all for violence: their f sup up as the
east wind, and they shall gather the captivity as the sAnd they shall scoff at the kings, and the princes shall be a
scorn unhey shall deride every strong hold; for they shall
heap dust, and takeThen shall his mind change, and he shall pass over, and offend,
imputipower unto his god.

1:12 Art thou not from everlasting, O LORD my God One? we
shall not die. O LORD, thou hast ordained them for judgment; hty God, thou hast established them for correction.

1:13 Thou art of  than to behold evil, and canst not look on
iniquity: wherefore lookes them that deal treacherously,
and holdest thy tongue when the wicked he man that is more
righteous than he?  1:14 And makest men as the fissea, as
the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?  1:15 They  of them with the angle, they catch them in their net, and gather
themrag: therefore they rejoice and are glad.

1:16 Therefore they sacrifiir net, and burn incense unto
their drag; because by them their portiond their meat
plenteous.

1:17 Shall they therefore empty their net, are continually
to slay the nations?  2:1 I will stand upon my watch, atower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I
shalI am reproved.

2:2 And the LORD answered me, and said, Write the visike it
plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it.

2:3 For theet for an appointed time, but at the end it
shall speak, and not lie: tarry, wait for it; because it
will surely come, it will not tarry.

2s soul which is lifted up is not upright in him: but the
just shall lifaith.

2:5 Yea also, because he transgresseth by wine, he is a proud r keepeth at home, who enlargeth his desire as hell, and is as
death, be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations,
and heapeth unto him: 2:6 Shall not all these take up a
parable against him, and a tauntinainst him, and say, Woe
to him that increaseth that which is not his! nd to him
that ladeth himself with thick clay!  2:7 Shall they not risy that shall bite thee, and awake that shall vex thee, and thou
shalt ies unto them?  2:8 Because thou hast spoiled many
nations, all the ree people shall spoil thee; because of
men’s blood, and for the violeland, of the city, and of all
that dwell therein.

2:9 Woe to him that evil covetousness to his house, that
he may set his nest on high, thae delivered from the power
of evil!  2:10 Thou hast consulted shame toby cutting off
many people, and hast sinned against thy soul.

2:11 Fo shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the
timber shall answe Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, and stablisheth a
city by2:13 Behold, is it not of the LORD of hosts that
the people shall labofire, and the people shall weary
themselves for very vanity?  2:14 Forshall be filled with
the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the wa the sea.

2:15 Woe unto him that giveth his neighbour drink, that putttle to him, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest look on
the!  2:16 Thou art filled with shame for glory: drink
thou also, and letin be uncovered: the cup of the LORD’s
right hand shall be turned unnd shameful spewing shall be on
thy glory.

2:17 For the violence of Ll cover thee, and the spoil of
beasts, which made them afraid, becauses blood, and for the
violence of the land, of the city, and of all tharein.

2:18 What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof hatit; the molten image, and a teacher of lies, that the maker of
his wortherein, to make dumb idols?  2:19 Woe unto him that
saith to the wood the dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach!
Behold, it is laid over with gver, and there is no breath
at all in the midst of it.

2:20 But the Lis holy temple: let all the earth keep
silence before him.

3:1 A praykuk the prophet upon Shigionoth.

3:2 O LORD, I have heard thy speech,fraid: O LORD, revive
thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst make
known; in wrath remember mercy.

3:3 God came from Teman, and thHoly One from mount Paran. Selah. His
glory covered the heavens, and tas full of his praise.

3:4 And his brightness was as the light; he haming out of
his hand: and there was the hiding of his power.

3:5 Befot the pestilence, and burning coals went forth at
his feet.

3:6 He steasured the earth: he beheld, and drove asunder the
nations; and the e mountains were scattered, the perpetual
hills did bow: his ways are e
3:7 I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction: and the curtains of the
ian did tremble.

3:8 Was the LORD displeased against the rivers? was 
against the rivers? was thy wrath against the sea, that thou didst
rine horses and thy chariots of salvation?  3:9 Thy bow was
made quite nrding to the oaths of the tribes, even thy word.
Selah. Thou didst clerth with rivers.

3:10 The mountains saw thee, and they trembled: the g of the
water passed by: the deep uttered his voice, and lifted up hihigh.

3:11 The sun and moon stood still in their habitation: at the line arrows they went, and at the shining of thy glittering spear.

3:1t march through the land in indignation, thou didst
thresh the heathenger.

3:13 Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, even fon with thine anointed; thou woundedst the head out of the
house of theby discovering the foundation unto the neck.
Selah.

3:14 Thou didst s staves the head of his
villages: they came out as a whirlwind to scateir rejoicing
was as to devour the poor secretly.

3:15 Thou didst walhe sea with thine horses, through the
heap of great waters.

3:16 Wheny belly trembled; my lips quivered at the voice:
rottenness entered ins, and I trembled in myself, that I
might rest in the day of trouble: eth up unto the people,
he will invade them with his troops.

3:17 Altg tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be
in the vines; the labolive shall fail, and the fields shall
yield no meat; the flock shall rom the fold, and there
shall be no herd in the stalls: 3:18 Yet I wiln the LORD, I
will joy in the God of my salvation.

3:19 The LORD God th, and he will make my feet like hinds’
feet, and he will make me t mine high places. To the chief
singer on my stringed instruments.





1:1 The word of the LORD which came unto Zephaniah the son of Cushi,f Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hizkiah, in the
days of Josof Amon, king of Judah.

1:2 I will utterly consume all things from of saith the
LORD.

1:3 I will consume man and beast; I will consume thethe
heaven, and the fishes of the sea, and the stumbling blocks with tand I will cut off man from off the land, saith the LORD.

1:4 I will h out mine hand upon Judah, and upon all the
inhabitants of Jerusalem;l cut off the remnant of Baal from
this place, and the name of the Che the priests; 1:5 And
them that worship the host of heaven upon the hod them that
worship and that swear by the LORD, and that swear by Malcd
them that are turned back from the LORD; and those that have not
souORD, nor enquired for him.

1:7 Hold thy peace at the presence of the or the day of the
LORD is at hand: for the LORD hath prepared a sacrifh bid
his guests.

1:8 And it shall come to pass in the day of the LORfice, that
I will punish the princes, and the king’s children, and aare clothed with strange apparel.

1:9 In the same day also will I punse that leap on the
threshold, which fill their masters’ houses withnd deceit.

1:10 And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORDe
shall be the noise of a cry from the fish gate, and an howling from
 and a great crashing from the hills.

1:11 Howl, ye inhabitants of Ma all the merchant people are
cut down; all they that bear silver are c12 And it shall come to pass at that time, that I will search
Jerusaleles, and punish the men that are settled on their
lees: that say in th The LORD will not do good, neither will
he do evil.

1:13 Therefore tall become a booty, and their houses a
desolation: they shall also buinot inhabit them; and
they shall plant vineyards, but not drink the wiear, it is near, and hasteth
greatly, even the voice of the day of theshall
cry there bitterly.

1:15 That day is a day of wrath, a day of t distress, a day
of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gl day
of clouds and thick darkness, 1:16 A day of the trumpet and alarmhe fenced cities, and against the high towers.

1:17 And I will bring pon men, that they shall walk like
blind men, because they have sinnedhe LORD: and their blood
shall be poured out as dust, and their flesh g.

1:18 Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver e day of the LORD’s wrath; but the whole land shall be devoured
by ts jealousy: for he shall make even a speedy riddance
of all them that  land.

2:1 Gather yourselves together, yea, gather together, O nationd; 2:2 Before the decree bring forth, before the day pass as the
chaffe fierce anger of the LORD come upon you, before the
day of the LORDe upon you.

2:3 Seek ye the LORD, all ye meek of the earth, which havis
judgment; seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye shall be ay of the LORD’s anger.

2:4 For Gaza shall be forsaken, and Ashkeloion: they shall
drive out Ashdod at the noon day, and Ekron shall be r2:5 Woe unto the inhabitants of the sea coast, the nation of the
Chereword of the LORD is against you; O Canaan, the land
of the Philistinesen destroy thee, that there shall be no
inhabitant.

2:6 And the sea clings and cottages for shepherds,
and folds for flocks.

2:7 And the c the remnant of the house of Judah; they
shall feed thereupon: in the shkelon shall they lie down in
the evening: for the LORD their God sham, and turn away
their captivity.

2:8 I have heard the reproach of Mo revilings of the
children of Ammon, whereby they have reproached my pagnified themselves against their border.

2:9 Therefore as I live, saD of hosts, the God of Israel,
Surely Moab shall be as Sodom, and the f Ammon as Gomorrah,
even the breeding of nettles, and saltpits, and a
desolation: the residue of my people shall spoil them, and the remnanple shall possess them.

2:10 This shall they have for their pride, be have
reproached and magnified themselves against the people of the LOs.

2:11 The LORD will be terrible unto them: for he will famish all tthe earth; and men shall worship him, every one from his
place, even as of the heathen.

2:12 Ye Ethiopians also, ye shall be slain by my swAnd he will stretch out his hand against the north, and destroy
Assyriill make Nineveh a desolation, and dry like a
wilderness.

2:14 And fllie down in the midst of her, all the beasts of
the nations: both the and the bittern shall lodge in the
upper lintels of it; their voice sh the windows; desolation
shall be in the thresholds; for he shall uncodar work.

2:15 This is the rejoicing city that dwelt carelessly, thater heart, I am, and there is none beside me: how is she become a
desolace for beasts to lie down in! every one that passeth
by her shall his his hand.

3:1 Woe to her that is filthy and polluted, to the oppress:2 She obeyed not the voice; she received not correction; she trusted
LORD; she drew not near to her God.

3:3 Her princes within her are ro; her judges are evening
wolves; they gnaw not the bones till the morrer prophets are light and treacherous persons: her priests have
pollutctuary, they have done violence to the law.

3:5 The just LORD is in thereof; he will not do iniquity:
every morning doth he bring his judgmt, he faileth not; but
the unjust knoweth no shame.

3:6 I have cut ofons: their towers are desolate; I made
their streets waste, that none : their cities are destroyed,
so that there is no man, that there is ntant.

3:7 I said, Surely thou wilt fear me, thou wilt receive instrucheir dwelling should not be cut off, howsoever I punished them:
but thly, and corrupted all their doings.

3:8 Therefore wait ye upon me, saRD, until the day that I
rise up to the prey: for my determination is the nations,
that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine ,
even all my fierce anger: for all the earth shall be devoured with t my jealousy.

3:9 For then will I turn to the people a pure language, may
all call upon the name of the LORD, to serve him with one consent beyond the rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants, even the
daughter of my  shall bring mine offering.

3:11 In that day shalt thou not be ashamethy doings, wherein
thou hast transgressed against me: for then I willout of
the midst of thee them that rejoice in thy pride, and thou shale haughty because of my holy mountain.

3:12 I will also leave in the ee an afflicted and poor
people, and they shall trust in the name of t13 The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies;
neitheeceitful tongue be found in their mouth: for they
shall feed and lie de shall make them afraid.

3:14 Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Isrd and rejoice
with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.

3:15 The Laken away thy judgments, he hath cast out thine
enemy: the king of Isrhe LORD, is in the midst of thee:
thou shalt not see evil any more.

3 day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear thou not: and to
Zion, Let nonds be slack.

3:17 The LORD thy God in the midst of thee is mighty; he, he
will rejoice over thee with joy; he will rest in his love, he wir thee with singing.

3:18 I will gather them that are sorrowful for tssembly,
who are of thee, to whom the reproach of it was a burden.

3: at that time I will undo all that afflict thee: and I
will save her t, and gather her that was driven out; and I
will get them praise and fre they have been put
to shame.

3:20 At that time will I bring you agin the time that I
gather you: for I will make you a name and a praise people
of the earth, when I turn back your captivity before your eyese LORD.




Haggai


1:1 In the second year of Darius the king, in theh, in the
first day of the month, came the word of the LORD by Haggai  unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and
to Joshuf Josedech, the high priest, saying, 1:2 Thus
speaketh the LORD of hos, This people say, The time is not
come, the time that the LORD’s ho be built.

1:3 Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, 
Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this
hoste?  1:5 Now therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts;
Consider your wa have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not
enough; t ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but
there is none warm;t earneth wages earneth wages to put it
into a bag with holes.

1:7 The LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.

1:8 Go up to the mountain, and bd build the house; and I
will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorithe LORD.

1:9 Ye looked for much, and, lo it came to little; and when
it home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the LORD of hosts. Because of that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house.

1:10 Therefoen over you is stayed from dew, and the earth
is stayed from her fruitI called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains,
and uponand upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon
that which the grounorth, and upon men, and upon cattle,
and upon all the labour of the hahen Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of
Josedech, test, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed
the voice of the LORD and the words of Haggai the prophet,
as the LORD their God had sent hipeople did fear before the
LORD.

1:13 Then spake Haggai the LORD’s n the LORD’s message unto
the people, saying, I am with you, saith t1:14 And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of
Shealor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of
Josedech, the high prhe spirit of all the remnant of the
people; and they came and did worke of the LORD of hosts,
their God, 1:15 In the four and twentieth day  month, in
the second year of Darius the king.

2:1 In the seventh mon one and twentieth day of the month,
came the word of the LORD by the ggai, saying, 2:2 Speak now
to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, govern and to Joshua
the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to the residuople, saying, 2:3 Who is left among you that saw this house in her
firand how do ye see it now? is it not in your eyes in
comparison of it a2:4 Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel,
saith the LORD; and be strong, O of Josedech, the high
priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land LORD, and
work: for I am with you, saith the LORD of hosts: 2:5 Accore
word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, so my
spith among you: fear ye not.

2:6 For thus saith the LORD of hosts; Yet a little while,
and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the s dry
land; 2:7 And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all natcome: and I will fill this house with glory, saith the LORD of
hosts.
ver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:9 The gs latter house shall be greater than of the
former, saith the LORD of in this place will I give peace,
saith the LORD of hosts.

2:10 In thewentieth day of the ninth month, in the second
year of Darius, came thhe LORD by Haggai the prophet,
saying, 2:11 Thus saith the LORD of hosw the priests
concerning the law, saying, 2:12 If one bear holy flesh rt
of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or
w, or any meat, shall it be holy? And the priests answered
and said, Non said Haggai, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any
of thes be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It
shall be unclean.

nswered Haggai, and said, So is this people, and so is this
nation befith the LORD; and so is every work of their hands;
and that which they unclean.

2:15 And now, I pray you, consider from this day and upwarda stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the LORD: 2:16
Since thre, when one came to an heap of twenty measures,
there were but ten: we to the pressfat for to draw out
fifty vessels out of the press, thertwenty.

2:17 I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail labours of your hands; yet ye turned not to me, saith the LORD.

2:18 ow from this day and upward, from the four and
twentieth day of the nieven from the day that the
foundation of the LORD’s temple was laid,.

2:19 Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, as yet the vine, and the fig the pomegranate, and the olive tree, hath not brought forth:
from thiday will I bless you.

2:20 And again the word of the LORD came unto Hhe four and
twentieth day of the month, saying, 2:21 Speak to Zerubbabor
of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth; 2:22 And l overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength
ofms of the heathen; and I will overthrow the chariots, and
those that r; and the horses and their riders shall come
down, every one by the sws brother.

2:23 In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, will I take thebabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, saith the LORD, and will
makesignet: for I have chosen thee, saith the LORD of hosts.




Zechariahthe eighth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word
of the Lchariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo the
prophet, saying, 1:D hath been sore displeased with your
fathers.

1:3 Therefore say thou, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Turn
ye unto me, saith the LORD of hoswill turn unto you, saith
the LORD of hosts.

1:4 Be ye not as your fao whom the former prophets have
cried, saying, Thus saith the LORD of ye now from your
evil ways, and from your evil doings: but they did no
hearken unto me, saith the LORD.

1:5 Your fathers, where are they? ahets, do they live for
ever?  1:6 But my words and my statutes, which  my servants
the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers? andned and said, Like as the LORD of hosts thought to do unto us,
accordiays, and according to our doings, so hath he dealt
with us.

1:7 Upon nd twentieth day of the eleventh month, which is
the month Sebat, in tyear of Darius, came the word of the
LORD unto Zechariah, the son of Be son of Iddo the
prophet, saying, 1:8 I saw by night, and behold a maon a
red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the
bbehind him were there red horses, speckled, and white.

1:9 Then said d, what are these? And the angel that talked
with me said unto me, I whee what these be.

1:10 And the man that stood among the myrtle treesnd said,
These are they whom the LORD hath sent to walk to and fro thrrth.

1:11 And they answered the angel of the LORD that stood among threes, and said, We have walked to and fro through the earth,
and, behoe earth sitteth still, and is at rest.

1:12 Then the angel of the LORand said, O LORD of hosts,
how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusahe cities of
Judah, against which thou hast had indignation these threen years?  1:13 And the LORD answered the angel that talked with me
wids and comfortable words.

1:14 So the angel that communed with me saiCry thou,
saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; I am jealous for Jerusr Zion with a great jealousy.

1:15 And I am very sore displeased withen that are at ease:
for I was but a little displeased, and they helpethe
affliction.

1:16 Therefore thus saith the LORD; I am returned to m with
mercies: my house shall be built in it, saith the LORD of hostse shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem.

1:17 Cry yet, saying, Thuse LORD of hosts; My cities through
prosperity shall yet be spread abro LORD shall yet comfort
Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.

1:18 ThI up mine eyes, and saw, and behold four horns.

1:19 And I said unto hat talked with me, What be these? And
he answered me, These are the hhave scattered Judah,
Israel, and Jerusalem.

1:20 And the LORD shewedpenters.

1:21 Then said I, What come these to do? And he spake, sayinre the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up
hi come to fray them, to cast out the horns of
the Gentiles, which liftehorn over the land of Judah to
scatter it.

2:1 I lifted up mine eyes d looked, and behold a man with a
measuring line in his hand.

2:2 Thed I, Whither goest thou? And he said unto me, To measure
Jerusalem, tois the breadth thereof, and what is the length
thereof.

2:3 And, behoel that talked with me went forth, and another
angel went out to meet d said unto him, Run, speak to this
young man, saying, Jerusalem shalled as towns without walls
for the multitude of men and cattle therein: saith the
LORD, will be unto her a wall of fire round about, and willry in the midst of her.

2:6 Ho, ho, come forth, and flee from the lanrth, saith the
LORD: for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of,
saith the LORD.

2:7 Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwellest with thef
Babylon.

2:8 For thus saith the LORD of hosts; After the glory hathe
unto the nations which spoiled you: for he that toucheth you touchet of his eye.

2:9 For, behold, I will shake mine hand upon them, and te a
spoil to their servants: and ye shall know that the LORD of hosts e.

2:10 Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion: for, lo, I come, and I in the midst of thee, saith the LORD.

2:11 And many nations shall be the LORD in that day, and
shall be my people: and I will dwell in the hee, and thou
shalt know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto thee the LORD shall inherit Judah his portion in the holy land,
and shall salem again.

2:13 Be silent, O all flesh, before the LORD: for he is ut
of his holy habitation.

3:1 And he shewed me Joshua the high priesbefore the angel
of the LORD, and Satan standing at his right hand to 

3:2 And the LORD said unto Satan, The LORD rebuke thee, O Satan; eve that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee: is not this a brand
plucked oire?  3:3 Now Joshua was clothed with filthy
garments, and stood beforel.

3:4 And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him,
s away the filthy garments from him. And unto him he said,
Behold, I ha thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will
clothe thee with change .

3:5 And I said, Let them set a fair mitre upon his head. So they seitre upon his head, and clothed him with garments. And the angel
of thood by.

3:6 And the angel of the LORD protested unto Joshua, saying, aith the LORD of hosts; If thou wilt walk in my ways, and if thou
wiltharge, then thou shalt also judge my house, and shalt
also keep my couwill give thee places to walk among these
that stand by.

3:8 Hear nowhe high priest, thou, and thy fellows that sit
before thee: for they aondered at: for, behold, I will bring
forth my servant the BRANCH.

3:stone that I have laid before Joshua; upon one
stone shall be seven eysaith the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land
i In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall ye call every man his
neider the vine and under the fig tree.

4:1 And the angel that talked wie again, and waked me, as a
man that is wakened out of his sleep.

4:2nto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and
behold a candlf gold, with a bowl upon the top of it, and
his seven lamps thereon, aes to the seven lamps, which are
upon the top thereof: 4:3 And two oli it, one upon the
right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left f.

4:4 So I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, sayie these, my lord?  4:5 Then the angel that talked with me
answered ande, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said,
No, my lord.

4:6 Then d and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of
the LORD unto ZerubbaNot by might, nor by power, but by
my spirit, saith the LORD of hosts.art thou, O great mountain? before Zerubbabel thou shalt
become a plaishall bring forth the headstone thereof with
shoutings, crying, Grace, it.

4:8 Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 4:9 The rubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall
also and thou shalt know that the LORD of hosts hath sent
me unto you.

4:1hath despised the day of small things? for they shall
rejoice, and shaet in the hand of Zerubbabel with
those seven; they are the eyes of th to and fro
through the whole earth.

4:11 Then answered I, and said uat are these two olive
trees upon the right side of the candlestick anleft side
thereof?  4:12 And I answered again, and said unto him, Whattwo olive branches which through the two golden pipes empty the golden themselves?  4:13 And he answered me and said, Knowest thou
not what nd I said, No, my lord.

4:14 Then said he, These are the two anointedt stand by the
LORD of the whole earth.

5:1 Then I turned, and liftedyes, and looked, and behold a
flying roll.

5:2 And he said unto me, Wthou? And I answered, I see a
flying roll; the length thereof is twentd the breadth
thereof ten cubits.

5:3 Then said he unto me, This is tthat goeth forth over the
face of the whole earth: for every one that all be cut off
as on this side according to it; and every one that swel be
cut off as on that side according to it.

5:4 I will bring it forhe LORD of hosts, and it shall enter
into the house of the thief, and  the house of him that sweareth
falsely by my name: and it shall remaidst of his house, and
shall consume it with the timber thereof and theereof.

5:5 Then the angel that talked with me went forth, and said un up now thine eyes, and see what is this that goeth forth.

5:6 And I is it? And he said, This is an ephah that goeth
forth. He said moreove their resemblance through all the
earth.

5:7 And, behold, there was  talent of lead: and this is a
woman that sitteth in the midst of the 8 And he said, This is wickedness. And he cast it into the midst of
th he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof.

5:9 Then lifted Ies, and looked, and, behold, there came
out two women, and the wind wawings; for they had wings
like the wings of a stork: and they lifted u between the
earth and the heaven.

5:10 Then said I to the angel thate, Whither do these
bear the ephah?  5:11 And he said unto me, To builse in the
land of Shinar: and it shall be established, and set there u base.

6:1 And I turned, and lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and, bee came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the
mountainsains of brass.

6:2 In the first chariot were red horses; and in the st
black horses; 6:3 And in the third chariot white horses; and in the
riot grisled and bay horses.

6:4 Then I answered and said unto the angel that talked with me, What
are these, my lord?  6:5 And the angel answered and said unto me,
These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth from
standing before the LORD of all the earth.

6:6 The black horses which are therein go forth into the north
country; and the white go forth after them; and the grisled go forth
toward the south country.

6:7 And the bay went forth, and sought to go that they might walk to
and fro through the earth: and he said, Get you hence, walk to and fro
through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth.

6:8 Then cried he upon me, and spake unto me, saying, Behold, tat go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north
couAnd the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 6:10 Take of them
of thty, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, which
are come from Ba come thou the same day, and go into the
house of Josiah the son of Ze:11 Then take silver and gold,
and make crowns, and set them upon the shua the son of
Josedech, the high priest; 6:12 And speak unto him, sa
speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is The
d he shall grow up out of his place, and he shall build the
temple of 6:13 Even he shall build the temple of the LORD;
and he shall bear the shall sit and rule upon his throne;
and he shall be a priest upon hisnd the counsel of peace
shall be between them both.

6:14 And the crowe to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah,
and to Hen the son of Zeph a memorial in the temple of the
LORD.

6:15 And they that are far off and build in the temple of
the LORD, and ye shall know that the LORD ath sent me unto
you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligent voice
of the LORD your God.

7:1 And it came to pass in the fourth yet the
word of the LORD came unto Zechariah in the fourth day of the nieven in Chisleu; 7:2 When they had sent unto the house of God
Sherezerelech, and their men, to pray before the LORD, 7:3
And to speak unto ts which were in the house of the LORD of
hosts, and to the prophets, suld I weep in the fifth month,
separating myself, as I have done theseears?  7:4 Then came
the word of the LORD of hosts unto me, saying, 7:to all the
people of the land, and to the priests, saying, When ye fasourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years, did
yast unto me, even to me?  7:6 And when ye did eat, and when
ye did drit ye eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves?
7:7 Should ye not hrds which the LORD hath cried by the
former prophets, when Jerusalem wted and in prosperity, and
the cities thereof round about her, when med the south and
the plain?  7:8 And the word of the LORD came unto Zecying,
7:9 Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Execute true judgmehew mercy and compassions every man to his brother: 7:10 And
oppress now, nor the fatherless, the stranger, nor the poor;
and let none of yo evil against his brother in your heart.

7:11 But they refused to heapulled away the shoulder, and
stopped their ears, that they should not2 Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, lest they should
hend the words which the LORD of hosts hath sent in his
spirit by the foets: therefore came a great wrath from the
LORD of hosts.

7:13 Therefome to pass, that as he cried, and they would
not hear; so they cried,d not hear, saith the LORD of
hosts: 7:14 But I scattered them with a mong all the
nations whom they knew not. Thus the land was desolate afthat no man passed through nor returned: for they laid the pleasant
lae.

8:1 Again the word of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying, 8:2 Thhe LORD of hosts; I was jealous for Zion with great jealousy,
and I was for her with great fury.

8:3 Thus saith the LORD; I am returned untd will dwell in
the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called ruth;
and the mountain of the LORD of hosts the holy mountain.

8:4 Thhe LORD of hosts; There shall yet old men and old
women dwell in the serusalem, and every man with his staff
in his hand for very age.

8:5 eets of the city shall be full of boys and girls
playing in the street

8:6 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; If it be marvellous in the eyes ofnt of this people in these days, should it also be marvellous
in mine  the LORD of hosts.

8:7 Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will ople from
the east country, and from the west country; 8:8 And I will  and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and they shall
be my  I will be their God, in truth and in righteousness.

8:9 Thus saith t hosts; Let your hands be strong, ye that
hear in these days these worouth of the prophets, which
were in the day that the foundation of thethe LORD of hosts
was laid, that the temple might be built.

8:10 For se days there was no hire for man, nor any hire for
beast; neither waspeace to him that went out or came in
because of the affliction: for In every one against his
neighbour.

8:11 But now I will not be unto thof this people as in the
former days, saith the LORD of hosts.

8:12 Fd shall be prosperous; the vine shall give her fruit,
and the ground sher increase, and the heavens shall give
their dew; and I will cause t of this people to possess all
these things.

8:13 And it shall come that as ye were a curse among the
heathen, O house of Judah, and house  so will I save you,
and ye shall be a blessing: fear not, but let youstrong.

8:14 For thus saith the LORD of hosts; As I thought to punishyour fathers provoked me to wrath, saith the LORD of hosts, and I
repe8:15 So again have I thought in these days to do well
unto Jerusalem ause of Judah: fear ye not.

8:16 These are the things that ye shall do every man the
truth to his neighbour; execute the judgment of truth a
your gates: 8:17 And let none of you imagine evil in your hearts
agaiighbour; and love no false oath: for all these are
things that I hate,.

8:18 And the word of the LORD of hosts came unto me, saying, 8:19 TD of hosts; The fast of the fourth month, and the fast of
the fifth, a of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth,
shall be to the house of J gladness, and cheerful feasts;
therefore love the truth and peace.

8ith the LORD of hosts; It shall yet come to pass, that
there shall comnd the inhabitants of many cities: 8:21 And
the inhabitants of one cito another, saying, Let us go
speedily to pray before the LORD, and to RD of hosts: I
will go also.

8:22 Yea, many people and strong nations to seek the LORD
of hosts in Jerusalem, and to pray before the LORD.
aith the LORD of hosts; In those days it shall come to
pass, that ten ake hold out of all languages of the
nations, even shall take hold of  him that is a Jew,
saying, We will go with you: for we have heard thah you.

9:1 The burden of the word of the LORD in the land of Hadrach,us shall be the rest thereof: when the eyes of man, as of all
the trib, shall be toward the LORD.

9:2 And Hamath also shall border thereby;Zidon, though it
be very wise.

9:3 And Tyrus did build herself a stro heaped up silver as
the dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streetold, the LORD will cast her out, and he will smite her power in
the sehall be devoured with fire.

9:5 Ashkelon shall see it, and fear; Gaza see it, and be
very sorrowful, and Ekron; for her expectation shall b and
the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabid a bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride
of the.

9:7 And I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his
abominbetween his teeth: but he that remaineth, even he,
shall be for our Goall be as a governor in Judah, and
Ekron as a Jebusite.

9:8 And I wilut mine house because of the army, because of
him that passeth by, andhim that returneth: and no
oppressor shall pass through them any more:e I seen with
mine eyes.

9:9 Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shoer of
Jerusalem: behold, thy King cometh unto thee: he is just, and han; lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of
an ass.
 will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from
Jerusalem, le bow shall be cut off: and he shall speak
peace unto the heathen: anion shall be from sea even to
sea, and from the river even to the endsth.

9:11 As for thee also, by the blood of thy covenant I have sent fisoners out of the pit wherein is no water.

9:12 Turn you to the stro prisoners of hope: even to day do
I declare that I will render double9:13 When I have bent
Judah for me, filled the bow with Ephraim, and ry sons, O
Zion, against thy sons, O Greece, and made thee as the swordty man.

9:14 And the LORD shall be seen over them, and his arrow shalas the lightning: and the LORD God shall blow the trumpet, and
shall glwinds of the south.

9:15 The LORD of hosts shall defend them; and thvour, and
subdue with sling stones; and they shall drink, and make a nrough wine; and they shall be filled like bowls, and as the corners
of
9:16 And the LORD their God shall save them in that day as the flock
le: for they shall be as the stones of a crown, lifted up
as an ensignnd.

9:17 For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! ake the young men cheerful, and new wine the maids.

10:1 Ask ye of thn in the time of the latter rain; so the
LORD shall make bright cloudshem showers of rain, to every
one grass in the field.

10:2 For the idoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a
lie, and have told false dreomfort in vain: therefore they
went their way as a flock, they were trause there was no
shepherd.

10:3 Mine anger was kindled against the snd I punished the
goats: for the LORD of hosts hath visited his flock f
Judah, and hath made them as his goodly horse in the battle.

10:4 Oame forth the corner, out of him the nail, out of him
the battle bow, every oppressor together.

10:5 And they shall be as mighty men, which their enemies
in the mire of the streets in the battle: and they shalause the LORD is with them, and the riders on horses shall be
confoundd I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the
house of Jing them again to place them; for I have
mercy upon them: and they shathough I had not cast them off:
for I am the LORD their God, and will 
10:7 And they of Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their heart
ce as through wine: yea, their children shall see it, and
be glad; thel rejoice in the LORD.

10:8 I will hiss for them, and gather them; foedeemed them:
and they shall increase as they have increased.

10:9 Anw them among the people: and they shall remember me
in far countries; hall live with their children, and turn
again.

10:10 I will bring theso out of the land of Egypt, and
gather them out of Assyria; and I wilhem into the land of
Gilead and Lebanon; and place shall not be found 
10:11 And he shall pass through the sea with affliction, and shall
smaves in the sea, and all the deeps of the river shall dry
up: and the ssyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of
Egypt shall depart aw2 And I will strengthen them in the LORD; and they shall walk up
and dname, saith the LORD.

11:1 Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire mhy cedars.

11:2 Howl, fir tree; for the cedar is fallen; because the 
spoiled: howl, O ye oaks of Bashan; for the forest of the vintage is
.

11:3 There is a voice of the howling of the shepherds; for their gliled: a voice of the roaring of young lions; for the pride of
Jordan i

11:4 Thus saith the LORD my God; Feed the flock of the slaughter; 11ossessors slay them, and hold themselves not guilty: and they
that sel Blessed be the LORD; for I am rich: and their own
shepherds pity them:6 For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the
LORD I will deliver the men every one into his neighbours
hand, and into this king: and they shall smite the land,
and out of their hand I will r them.

11:7 And I will feed the flock of slaughter, even you, O poorock. And I took unto me two staves; the one I called Beauty, and the
oed Bands; and I fed the flock.

11:8 Three shepherds also I cut off in; and my soul lothed
them, and their soul also abhorred me.

11:9 Then will not feed you: that that dieth, let it die;
and that that is to b let it be cut off; and let the rest
eat every one the flesh of anotheAnd I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder, that I
might brenant which I had made with all the people.

11:11 And it was broken inand so the poor of the flock that
waited upon me knew that it was the he LORD.

11:12 And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my prinot, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver.

1the LORD said unto me, Cast it unto the potter: a goodly
price that I  at of them. And I took the thirty pieces of
silver, and cast them to  LORD.

11:14 Then I cut asunder mine other staff, even Bands, that I d Israel.

11:15 And the LORD said unto me, Take unto thee yet the insf
a foolish shepherd.

11:16 For, lo, I will raise up a shepherd in thich shall not
visit those that be cut off, neither shall seek the younr
heal that that is broken, nor feed that that standeth still: but he
 the flesh of the fat, and tear their claws in pieces.

11:17 Woe to tepherd that leaveth the flock! the sword shall
be upon his arm, and upht eye: his arm shall be clean dried
up, and his right eye shall be utkened.

12:1 The burden of the word of the LORD for Israel, saith the h stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the
eartheth the spirit of man within him.

12:2 Behold, I will make Jerusalem rembling unto all the
people round about, when they shall be in the sigainst Judah
and against Jerusalem.

12:3 And in that day will I make  a burdensome stone for all
people: all that burden themselves with it cut in pieces,
though all the people of the earth be gathered togetheit.

12:4 In that day, saith the LORD, I will smite every horse with
ant, and his rider with madness: and I will open mine eyes
upon the hou, and will smite every horse of the people with
blindness.

12:5 And trs of Judah shall say in their heart, The
inhabitants of Jerusalem shatrength in the LORD of hosts
their God.

12:6 In that day will I make of Judah like an hearth of
fire among the wood, and like a torch of find they
shall devour all the people round about, on the right hand andeft: and Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in her own place, even in


12:7 The LORD also shall save the tents of Judah first, that the glo house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem do
not mmselves against Judah.

12:8 In that day shall the LORD defend the inhf Jerusalem;
and he that is feeble among them at that day shall be as the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of the LORD before
thAnd it shall come to pass in that day, that I will seek to
destroy allns that come against Jerusalem.

12:10 And I will pour upon the house and upon the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supp
and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and they shall
mom, as one mourneth for his only son, and shall be in
bitterness for hihat is in bitterness for his firstborn.

12:11 In that day shall thereeat mourning in Jerusalem, as the
mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valledon.

12:12 And the land shall mourn, every family apart; the family oe of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house
of Na and their wives apart; 12:13 The family of the house
of Levi apart, aves apart; the family of Shimei apart, and
their wives apart; 12:14 Allies that remain, every family
apart, and their wives apart.

13:1 In here shall be a fountain opened to the house of
David and to the inhaberusalem for sin and for uncleanness.

13:2 And it shall come to pass y, saith the LORD of hosts,
that I will cut off the names of the idolse land, and they
shall no more be remembered: and also I will cause thand
the unclean spirit to pass out of the land.

13:3 And it shall com, that when any shall yet prophesy, then
his father and his mother tha shall say unto him, Thou
shalt not live; for thou speakest lies in ththe LORD: and
his father and his mother that begat him shall thrust hiwhen
he prophesieth.

13:4 And it shall come to pass in that day, thatts shall be
ashamed every one of his vision, when he hath prophesied; all they wear a rough garment to deceive: 13:5 But he shall say, I
am , I am an husbandman; for man taught me to keep cattle
from my youth.
one shall say unto him, What are these wounds in thine hands?
Then he r, Those with which I was wounded in the house of
my friends.

13:7 Awrd, against my shepherd, and against the man that is
my fellow, saith  hosts: smite the shepherd, and the sheep
shall be scattered: and I wine hand upon the little ones.

13:8 And it shall come to pass, that inand, saith the LORD,
two parts therein shall be cut off and die; but tall be
left therein.

13:9 And I will bring the third part through the will refine
them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is t
shall call on my name, and I will hear them: I will say, It is my
peoey shall say, The LORD is my God.

14:1 Behold, the day of the LORD cothy spoil shall be
divided in the midst of thee.

14:2 For I will gathons against Jerusalem to battle; and
the city shall be taken, and the ed, and the women
ravished; and half of the city shall go forth into cnd the
residue of the people shall not be cut off from the city.

14:3l the LORD go forth, and fight against those nations, as
when he foughy of battle.

14:4 And his feet shall stand in that day upon the mountwhich is before Jerusalem on the east, and the mount of Olives shall
cthe midst thereof toward the east and toward the west, and
there shallgreat valley; and half of the mountain shall
remove toward the north, f it toward the south.

14:5 And ye shall flee to the valley of the moor the valley
of the mountains shall reach unto Azal: yea, ye shall fls ye
fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Jude LORD my God shall come, and all the saints with thee.

14:6 And it s to pass in that day, that the light shall not
be clear, nor dark: 14:all be one day which shall be known
to the LORD, not day, nor night: bl come to pass, that at
evening time it shall be light.

14:8 And it sthat day, that living waters shall go out from
Jerusalem; half of themea, and half of them toward
the hinder sea: in summer and in winter sh
14:9 And the LORD shall be king over all the earth: in that day shall one LORD, and his name one.

14:10 All the land shall be turned as a  Geba to Rimmon
south of Jerusalem: and it shall be lifted up, and inhher
place, from Benjamin’s gate unto the place of the first gate, unner gate, and from the tower of Hananeel unto the king’s
winepressesnd men shall dwell in it, and there shall be no more utter
destructionem shall be safely inhabited.

14:12 And this shall be the plague wherLORD will smite all
the people that have fought against Jerusalem; Thehall
consume away while they stand upon their feet, and their eyes sha away in their holes, and their tongue shall consume away in
their mou And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great tumult from
the Lbe among them; and they shall lay hold every one on the
hand of his ned his hand shall rise up against the hand of
his neighbour.

14:14 Ando shall fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all
the heathen round abbe gathered together, gold, and silver,
and apparel, in great abundancAnd so shall be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the
camel, anss, and of all the beasts that shall be in these
tents, as this plagued it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of all
the nationame against Jerusalem shall even go up from year to
year to worship th LORD of hosts, and to keep the feast of
tabernacles.

14:17 And it sht whoso will not come up of all the families
of the earth unto Jerusalip the King, the LORD of hosts,
even upon them shall be no rain.

14:1he family of Egypt go not up, and come not, that have no
rain; there s plague, wherewith the LORD will smite the
heathen that come not up toast of tabernacles.

14:19 This shall be the punishment of Egypt, and ment of all
nations that come not up to keep the feast of tabernacles. that day shall there be upon the bells of the horses,
HOLINESS UNTO Tnd the pots in the LORD’s house shall be like
the bowls before the a21 Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness unto
theosts: and all they that sacrifice shall come and take of
them, and see: and in that day there shall be no more the
Canaanite in the house of of hosts.




Malachi


1:1 The burden of the word of the LORD to Isrchi.

1:2 I have loved you, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, Wherein hast tus? Was not Esau Jacob’s brother? saith the LORD: yet I loved
Jacob,hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage
waste for the drage wilderness.

1:4 Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we wilnd
build the desolate places; thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall I will throw down; and they shall call them, The border of
wickedness people against whom the LORD hath indignation for
ever.

1:5 And yourl see, and ye shall say, The LORD will be
magnified from the border of1:6 A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I behere is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my
fear? saith theosts unto you, O priests, that despise my
name. And ye say, Wherein haised thy name?  1:7 Ye offer
polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye sa have we polluted
thee? In that ye say, The table of the LORD is conte1:8 And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if ye lame and sick, is it not evil? offer it now unto thy
governor; will hsed with thee, or accept thy person? saith
the LORD of hosts.

1:9 Anday you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us:
this hath been bs: will he regard your persons? saith the
LORD of hosts.

1:10 Who is  among you that would shut the doors for nought?
neither do ye kindle e altar for nought. I have no pleasure
in you, saith the LORD of hostswill I accept an offering at
your hand.

1:11 For from the rising of tn unto the going down of the
same my name shall be great among the Genin every place
incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offery
name shall be great among the heathen, saith the LORD of hosts.

1:1have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the LORD is
polluted; ahereof, even his meat, is contemptible.

1:13 Ye said also, Behold, whs it! and ye have snuffed
at it, saith the LORD of hosts; and ye brough was torn,
and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: scept this of your hand? saith the LORD.

1:14 But cursed be the deceivhath in his flock a male, and
voweth, and sacrificeth unto the LORD a hing: for I am a
great King, saith the LORD of hosts, and my name is dong the
heathen.

2:1 And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for yf ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay it to heart, to give
glory me, saith the LORD of hosts, I will even send a curse
upon you, and I  your blessings: yea, I have cursed them
already, because ye do not laart.

2:3 Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your n the dung of your solemn feasts; and one shall take you away with
it.ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that
my cove be with Levi, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:5 My covenant was with him  peace; and I gave them to him
for the fear wherewith he feared me, anid before my name.

2:6 The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquit found in
his lips: he walked with me in peace and equity, and did tur from iniquity.

2:7 For the priest’s lips should keep knowledge, anuld seek
the law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of the LORD of But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble
at e have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the LORD of
hosts.

2:9 Tave I also made you contemptible and base before all
the people, accorhave not kept my ways, but have been
partial in the law.

2:10 Have wene father? hath not one God created us? why do
we deal treacherously egainst his brother, by profaning the
covenant of our fathers?  2:11 Juealt treacherously, and an
abomination is committed in Israel and in Jor Judah hath
profaned the holiness of the LORD which he loved, and ha the
daughter of a strange god.

2:12 The LORD will cut off the man thhis, the master and the
scholar, out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and fereth an
offering unto the LORD of hosts.

2:13 And this have ye doneovering the altar of the LORD with
tears, with weeping, and with cryinmuch that he regardeth
not the offering any more, or receiveth it with at your
hand.

2:14 Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the LORD hath beenetween
thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt
tr: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant.

2:15 And diake one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit.
And wherefore one? Thatek a godly seed. Therefore take
heed to your spirit, and let none dealously against the wife
of his youth.

2:16 For the LORD, the God of Ish that he hateth putting
away: for one covereth violence with his garmh the LORD of
hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal erously.

2:17 Ye have wearied the LORD with your words. Yet ye say, We we wearied him? When ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good in
th the LORD, and he delighteth in them; or, Where is the God
of judgmentold, I will send my messenger, and he shall
prepare the way before me:RD, whom ye seek, shall suddenly
come to his temple, even the messengeovenant, whom ye
delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of :2 But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when
h? for he is like a refiner’s fire, and like fullers’ soap:
3:3 Andsit as a refiner and purifier of silver: and he shall
purify the sons nd purge them as gold and silver, that they
may offer unto the LORD anin righteousness.

3:4 Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem t unto
the LORD, as in the days of old, and as in former years.

3:5 Acome near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift
witness against th, and against the adulterers, and against
false swearers, and against  oppress the hireling in his
wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and aside the stranger
from his right, and fear not me, saith the LORD of6 For I am the LORD, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are
not 3:7 Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine
ordi have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return
unto you, saithBut ye said, Wherein shall we
return?  3:8 Will a man rob God? Yet ye d me. But ye say,
Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole
natioring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be
meat in , and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of
hosts, if I will not opwindows of heaven, and pour you out
a blessing, that there shall not bugh to receive it.

3:11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakeshall not
destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cait before the time in the field, saith the LORD of hosts.

3:12 And alhall call you blessed: for ye shall be a
delightsome land, saith the Ls.

3:13 Your words have been stout against me, saith the LORD. Yet yeave we spoken so much against thee?  3:14 Ye have said, It
is vain to : and what profit is it that we have kept his
ordinance, and that we hmournfully before the LORD of
hosts?  3:15 And now we call the proud h they that work
wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are evd.

3:16 Then they that feared the LORD spake often one to another: an hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance was
written beforehem that feared the LORD, and that thought
upon his name.

3:17 And the mine, saith the LORD of hosts, in that day when
I make up my jewels; spare them, as a man spareth his own
son that serveth him.

3:18 Thenreturn, and discern between the righteous and the
wicked, between him th God and him that serveth him not.

4:1 For, behold, the day cometh,l burn as an oven; and all
the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, subble: and the
day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the LORD of h it
shall leave them neither root nor branch.

4:2 But unto you that fe shall the Sun of righteousness
arise with healing in his wings; and  forth, and grow up as
calves of the stall.

4:3 And ye shall tread doed; for they shall be ashes under
the soles of your feet in the day thdo this, saith the LORD
of hosts.

4:4 Remember ye the law of Moses my which I commanded unto
him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutesents.

4:5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the cominreat and dreadful day of the LORD: 4:6 And he shall turn the
heart of s to the children, and the heart of the children to
their fathers, lesnd smite the earth with a curse.


***




The New Testament of the Kible




The Gospel According to Saint Matthew


1:1 The book of the gef Jesus Christ, the son of David, the
son of Abraham.

1:2 Abraham begnd Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judas
and his brethren; 1:3 And t Phares and Zara of Thamar; and
Phares begat Esrom; and Esrom begat And Aram begat Aminadab;
and Aminadab begat Naasson; and Naasson begat 5 And Salmon
begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obesse; 1:6 And Jesse begat David the king; and David the king begat
Sol that had been the wife of Urias; 1:7 And Solomon begat
Roboam; and Ro Abia; and Abia begat Asa; 1:8 And Asa begat
Josaphat; and Josaphat beand Joram begat Ozias; 1:9 And
Ozias begat Joatham; and Joatham begat  Achaz begat Ezekias;
1:10 And Ezekias begat Manasses; and Manasses bend Amon
begat Josias; 1:11 And Josias begat Jechonias and his brethrene they were carried away to Babylon: 1:12 And after they were
brought iel begat
Zorobabel; 1:13 And Zorobabel begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim begat Azor; 1:14 And Azor begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat
Achim; agat Eliud; 1:15 And Eliud begat Eleazar; and
Eleazar begat Matthan; anbegat Jacob; 1:16 And Jacob begat
Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom us, who is called
Christ.

1:17 So all the generations from Abraham to fourteen
generations; and from David until the carrying away into Babrteen generations; and from the carrying away into Babylon unto
Christteen generations.

1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wiseis
mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she with child of the Holy Ghost.

1:19 Then Joseph her husband, being a j not willing to
make her a publick example, was minded to put her awayBut while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the
LORD ap in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David,
fear not to take unto hy wife: for that which is conceived
in her is of the Holy Ghost.

1:2hall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name
JESUS: for he sha people from their sins.

1:22 Now all this was done, that it might be which was
spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, 1:23 Behold, a vl
be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his
uel, which being interpreted is, God with us.

1:24 Then Joseph being m sleep did as the angel of the Lord
had bidden him, and took unto him 1:25 And knew her not till
she had brought forth her firstborn son: ad his name JESUS.

2:1 Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea s of
Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to
JeruSaying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for
we have seen hithe east, and are come to worship him.

2:3 When Herod the king had hethings, he was troubled, and
all Jerusalem with him.

2:4 And when he d all the chief priests and scribes of the
people together, he demandehere Christ should be born.

2:5 And they said unto him, In Bethlehem  for thus it is
written by the prophet, 2:6 And thou Bethlehem, in theuda,
art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee shalernor, that shall rule my people Israel.

2:7 Then Herod, when he had lled the wise men, enquired of
them diligently what time the star append he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently
for thild; and when ye have found him, bring me word again,
that I may comeip him also.

2:9 When they had heard the king, they departed; and, lor,
which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stooe the young child was.

2:10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced witg great joy.

2:11 And when they were come into the house, they saw thld
with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped him: and when tned their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and
frankincrrh.

2:12 And being warned of God in a dream that they should not retod, they departed into their own country another way.

2:13 And when teparted, behold, the angel of the Lord
appeareth to Joseph in a dream,rise, and take the young
child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, anhere until I
bring thee word: for Herod will seek the young child to d.

2:14 When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by nightrted into Egypt: 2:15 And was there until the death of Herod:
that it lfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the
prophet, saying, Out of Egcalled my son.

2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of thewas
exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that welehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and
under, ac the time which he had diligently enquired of the
wise men.

2:17 Thenled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet,
saying, 2:18 In Rama a voice heard, lamentation, and
weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weher children, and
would not be comforted, because they are not.

2:19 erod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth
in a dream to Joypt, 2:20 Saying, Arise, and take the young
child and his mother, and  land of Israel: for they are
dead which sought the young child’s liAnd he arose, and took the young child and his mother, and came
into t Israel.

2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judaea inf his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither: notwithstanding,
beinf God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of
Galilee: 2:23 And d dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it
might be fulfilled which wa the prophets, He shall be
called a Nazarene.

3:1 In those days came aptist, preaching in the wilderness
of Judaea, 3:2 And saying, Repent e kingdom of heaven is at
hand.

3:3 For this is he that was spoken ofhet Esaias, saying,
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepareay of the
Lord, make his paths straight.

3:4 And the same John had hiof camel’s hair, and a leathern
girdle about his loins; and his meatts and wild honey.

3:5 Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea
round about Jordan, 3:6 And were baptized of him in Jordan, confessinns.

3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to h he said unto them, O generation of vipers, who hath warned
you to fle wrath to come?  3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits
meet for repentance:ink not to say within yourselves, We
have Abraham to our father: for Iyou, that God is able of
these stones to raise up children unto Abrahand now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees:
therefore everch bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down,
and cast into the fire.deed baptize you with water unto repentance. but he that
cometh after ier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to
bear: he shall baptize you ly Ghost, and with fire: 3:12
Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thge his floor, and
gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn uf with
unquenchable fire.

3:13 Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordn, to be
baptized of him.

3:14 But John forbad him, saying, I have nebaptized of thee,
and comest thou to me?  3:15 And Jesus answering saiim, Suffer
it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righThen he suffered him.

3:16 And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up s out of the
water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he srit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: 3:17 And
lo om heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am
well pleased.
was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be
tempted of th4:2 And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was
afterwared.

4:3 And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Socommand that these stones be made bread.

4:4 But he answered and saiditten, Man shall not live by
bread alone, but by every word that proceof the mouth of
God.

4:5 Then the devil taketh him up into the holy cetteth him
on a pinnacle of the temple, 4:6 And saith unto him, If thoon of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his
ang concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee
up, lest at ou dash thy foot against a stone.

4:7 Jesus said unto him, It is writThou shalt not tempt the
Lord thy God.

4:8 Again, the devil taketh hian exceeding high mountain,
and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the woe glory of them;
4:9 And saith unto him, All these things will I give ou
wilt fall down and worship me.

4:10 Then saith Jesus unto him, Getce, Satan: for it is
written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, andshalt thou
serve.

4:11 Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angel
ministered unto him.

4:12 Now when Jesus had heard that John was casson, he
departed into Galilee; 4:13 And leaving Nazareth, he came and apernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zabulon and
N 4:14 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias
the prophe 4:15 The land of Zabulon, and the land of
Nephthalim, by the way of tond Jordan, Galilee of the
Gentiles; 4:16 The people which sat in darkreat light; and
to them which sat in the region and shadow of death liung
up.

4:17 From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repentkingdom of heaven is at hand.

4:18 And Jesus, walking by the sea of Gw two brethren, Simon
called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a he sea: for
they were fishers.

4:19 And he saith unto them, Follow mel make you fishers of
men.

4:20 And they straightway left their nets,wed him.

4:21 And going on from thence, he saw other two brethren, Jan of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their
fathetheir nets; and he called them.

4:22 And they immediately left the shir father, and followed
him.

4:23 And Jesus went about all Galilee, t their synagogues,
and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healinr of
sickness and all manner of disease among the people.

4:24 And hit throughout all Syria: and they brought unto him
all sick people that with divers diseases and torments, and
those which were possessed witand those which were lunatick,
and those that had the palsy; and he he
4:25 And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee,
olis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea, and from
beyond Jordan.

5:e multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he
was set, his dise unto him: 5:2 And he opened his mouth, and
taught them, saying, 5:3 re the poor in spirit: for theirs is
the kingdom of heaven.

5:4 Blessy that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

5:5 Blessed are the meek: hall inherit the earth.

5:6 Blessed are they which do hunger and thirighteousness:
for they shall be filled.

5:7 Blessed are the merciful:hall obtain mercy.

5:8 Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall 
5:9 Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the childre
5:10 Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness’ sake:s is the kingdom of heaven.

5:11 Blessed are ye, when men shall revil persecute you, and
shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, .

5:12 Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in
heso persecuted they the prophets which were before you.

5:13 Ye are thhe earth: but if the salt have lost his
savour, wherewith shall it be t is thenceforth good for
nothing, but to be cast out, and to be troddoot of men.

5:14 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set onannot be hid.

5:15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a t on
a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the houset your light so shine before men, that they may see your good
works, a your Father which is in heaven.

5:17 Think not that I am come to desaw, or the prophets: I
am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.

5:18 Fo say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or
one tittle shalle pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.

5:19 Whosoever therefore  one of these least commandments,
and shall teach men so, he shall be  least in the kingdom of
heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach themshall be
called great in the kingdom of heaven.

5:20 For I say unto yxcept your righteousness shall exceed
the righteousness of the scribesisees, ye shall in no case
enter into the kingdom of heaven.

5:21 Ye that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt
not kill; and whosoevill shall be in danger of the judgment:
5:22 But I say unto you, That is angry with his brother
without a cause shall be in danger of the jund whosoever
shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of thebut
whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.

fore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there
rememberest that t hath ought against thee; 5:24 Leave there
thy gift before the altar,  way; first be reconciled to thy
brother, and then come and offer thy  Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way
with ht any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge,
and the judge delio the officer, and thou be cast into
prison.

5:26 Verily I say unto tshalt by no means come out thence,
till thou hast paid the uttermost f
5:27 Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt
nultery: 5:28 But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh
on a woman to  her hath committed adultery with her already
in his heart.

5:29 And ht eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from
thee: for it is pror thee that one of thy members should
perish, and not that thy whole bbe cast into hell.

5:30 And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off it from
thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members sh, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

5:31 It hathd, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him
give her a writing of di5:32 But I say unto you, That
whosoever shall put away his wife, savinause of
fornication, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shaer that is divorced committeth adultery.

5:33 Again, ye have heard th been said by them of old time,
Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but srm unto the Lord thine
oaths: 5:34 But I say unto you, Swear not at alby heaven;
for it is God’s throne: 5:35 Nor by the earth; for it is ool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.

5:36alt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make
one hair white

5:37 But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoevese cometh of evil.

5:38 Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eyeeye, and a
tooth for a tooth: 5:39 But I say unto you, That ye resist but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the
oth
5:40 And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat,ave thy cloak also.

5:41 And whosoever shall compel thee to go a milehim twain.

5:42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would
thee turn not thou away.

5:43 Ye have heard that it hath been said, t love thy
neighbour, and hate thine enemy.

5:44 But I say unto you, enemies, bless them that curse you,
do good to them that hate you, andthem which despitefully
use you, and persecute you; 5:45 That ye may bdren of your
Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise l
and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.

5:ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not
even the publsame?  5:47 And if ye salute your brethren
only, what do ye more than  not even the publicans so?  5:48
Be ye therefore perfect, even as youhich is in heaven is
perfect.

6:1 Take heed that ye do not your alms , to be seen of them:
otherwise ye have no reward of your Father whichen.

6:2 Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet
 as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the
streets, that they glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They
have their reward.

6:3 But oest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth: 6:4 Talms may be in secret: and thy Father
which seeth in secret himself sh thee openly.

6:5 And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hype:
for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the cornersreets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They
have rd.

6:6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy
Father win secret shall reward thee openly.

6:7 But when ye pray, use not vaions, as the heathen do: for
they think that they shall be heard for theaking.

6:8 Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knowengs ye have need of, before ye ask him.

6:9 After this manner therefo: Our Father which art in
heaven, Hallowed be thy name.

6:10 Thy kinghy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.

6:11 Give us this day oread.

6:12 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

6:13us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For
thine is the kinhe power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.

6:14 For if ye forgive men tasses, your heavenly Father will
also forgive you: 6:15 But if ye forg their trespasses,
neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.

ver when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad
countenance: forigure their faces, that they may appear unto
men to fast. Verily I say They have their reward.

6:17 But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thi and wash thy
face; 6:18 That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unsecret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall
reward thee openles upon earth, where moth and
rust doth corrupt, and where thieves bre and steal: 6:20 But
lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where th nor rust
doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor sor where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

6:22 The li body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be
single, thy whole body shaof light.

6:23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be fulless.

If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great isness!  6:24 No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate
the ve the other; or else he will hold to the one, and
despise the other. serve God and mammon.

6:25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought fe, what ye
shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, ll put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than
raiment? d the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither
do they reap, nor gabarns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth
them. Are ye not much better t6:27 Which of you by taking
thought can add one cubit unto his stature take ye
thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how thil not, neither do they spin: 6:29 And yet I say unto you, That
even Sll his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

6:30 Wherefore, if Gohe the grass of the field, which to day
is, and to morrow is cast into shall he not much more clothe
you, O ye of little faith?  6:31 Therefo thought, saying,
What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wheshall we
be clothed?  6:32 (For after all these things do the Gentilesr your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these
things.
 seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and
all thesall be added unto you.

6:34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow:row shall
take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the devil thereof.

7:1 Judge not, that ye be not judged.

7:2 For with wha ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what
measure ye mete, it shalld to you again.

7:3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy breye, but
considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?  7:4 Or hou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye;
and, beam is in thine own eye?  7:5 Thou hypocrite, first
cast out the beamine own eye; and then shalt thou see
clearly to cast out the mote out ther’s eye.

7:6 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither ur
pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and tand rend you.

7:7 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall ck,
and it shall be opened unto you: 7:8 For every one that asketh
recd he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it
shall be openedwhat man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he
give him 7:10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a
serpent?  7:11 If ye thenil, know how to give good gifts
unto your children, how much more shaler which is in heaven
give good things to them that ask him?  7:12 Theings
whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to this is the law and the prophets.

7:13 Enter ye in at the strait gate:is the gate, and broad
is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and mae which go in
thereat: 7:14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is hich
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

7:15 Beware ofphets, which come to you in sheep’s clothing,
but inwardly they are olves.

7:16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes  or figs of thistles?  7:17 Even so every good tree bringeth
forth goout a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.

7:18 A good tree cannot h evil fruit, neither can a corrupt
tree bring forth good fruit.

7:19e that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and
cast into the f Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.

7:21 Not every one thao me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into
the kingdom of heaven; but he that ill of my Father which
is in heaven.

7:22 Many will say to me in that, Lord, have we not
prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast s? and in
thy name done many wonderful works?  7:23 And then will I pr
them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.

7:24  whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth
them, I will likenwise man, which built his house upon a
rock: 7:25 And the rain descende floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fe it was founded
upon a rock.

7:26 And every one that heareth these saine, and doeth them
not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which buse upon
the sand: 7:27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, ans blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the
fall 28 And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the
peopleished at his doctrine: 7:29 For he taught them as one
having authoritys the scribes.

8:1 When he was come down from the mountain, great mulollowed
him.

8:2 And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, rd,
if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

8:3 And Jesus put forth hd touched him, saying, I will; be
thou clean. And immediately his lepreansed.

8:4 And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thw thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded,
for m.

8:5 And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto himon, beseeching him, 8:6 And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at
home sicalsy, grievously tormented.

8:7 And Jesus saith unto him, I will comehim.

8:8 The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that dest come under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant
shall.

8:9 For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and Iis man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he
cometh; and to , Do this, and he doeth it.

8:10 When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, a them that
followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great ,
not in Israel.

8:11 And I say unto you, That many shall come from td west,
and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the heaven.

8:12 But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into oness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

8:13 And Jesus sae centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast
believed, so be it done untohis servant was healed in the
selfsame hour.

8:14 And when Jesus was Peter’s house, he saw his wife’s
mother laid, and sick of a fever. he touched her hand, and the fever left her: and she arose,
and minis them.

8:16 When the even was come, they brought unto him many that wsed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and
healedere sick: 8:17 That it might be fulfilled which was
spoken by Esaias t saying, Himself took our infirmities,
and bare our sicknesses.

8:18 esus saw great multitudes about him, he gave
commandment to depart untr side.

8:19 And a certain scribe came, and said unto him, Master, I w thee whithersoever thou goest.

8:20 And Jesus saith unto him, The fholes, and the birds of
the air have nests; but the Son of man hath noo lay his head.

8:21 And another of his disciples said unto him, Lorde first
to go and bury my father.

8:22 But Jesus said unto him, Follo and let the dead bury their
dead.

8:23 And when he was entered into s disciples followed him.

8:24 And, behold, there arose a great tempesea, insomuch
that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asl And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save
us: 
8:26 And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faithrose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a
great calm.

he men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that
even the wie sea obey him!  8:28 And when he was come to the
other side into the  the Gergesenes, there met him two
possessed with devils, coming out obs, exceeding fierce, so
that no man might pass by that way.

8:29 Andd, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with
thee, Jesus, thou S art thou come hither to torment us
before the time?  8:30 And there wway off from them an herd
of many swine feeding.

8:31 So the devils b, saying, If thou cast us out, suffer
us to go away into the herd of s And he said unto them, Go. And when they were come out, they went
int of swine: and, behold, the whole herd of swine ran
violently down a sinto the sea, and perished in the waters.

8:33 And they that kept thed went their ways into the city,
and told every thing, and what was bethe possessed of the
devils.

8:34 And, behold, the whole city came ouesus: and when they
saw him, they besought him that he would depart ou coasts.

9:1 And he entered into a ship, and passed over, and came incity.

9:2 And, behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, led: and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy;
Son,d cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee.

9:3 And, behold, certain of the sd within themselves, This
man blasphemeth.

9:4 And Jesus knowing thei said, Wherefore think ye evil in
your hearts?  9:5 For whether is eas, Thy sins be forgiven
thee; or to say, Arise, and walk?  9:6 But thatow that the
Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (then saite
sick of the palsy,) Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house.he arose, and departed to his house.

9:8 But when the multitudes saw arvelled, and glorified God,
which had given such power unto men.

9:9passed forth from thence, he saw a man, named
Matthew, sitting at the m: and he saith unto him,
Follow me. And he arose, and followed him.

it came to pass, as Jesus sat at meat in the house, behold,
many publisinners came and sat down with him and his
disciples.

9:11 And when tees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why
eateth your Master with  and sinners?  9:12 But when Jesus
heard that, he said unto them, Theywhole need not a
physician, but they that are sick.

9:13 But go ye anat that meaneth, I will have mercy, and not
sacrifice: for I am not col the righteous, but sinners to
repentance.

9:14 Then came to him thes of John, saying, Why do we and the
Pharisees fast oft, but thy discit not?  9:15 And Jesus said
unto them, Can the children of the bridech, as long as the
bridegroom is with them? but the days will come, whenroom
shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast.

9:16 No man e of new cloth unto an old garment, for that
which is put in to fill ih from the garment, and the rent is
made worse.

9:17 Neither do men p into old bottles: else the bottles
break, and the wine runneth out, atles perish: but they put
new wine into new bottles, and both are pres18 While he spake these things unto them, behold, there came a
certaind worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now
dead: but come and l upon her, and she shall live.

9:19 And Jesus arose, and followed himid his disciples.

9:20 And, behold, a woman, which was diseased with f blood
twelve years, came behind him, and touched the hem of his garmFor she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I
shall b9:22 But Jesus turned him about, and when he saw her, he said,
Daughteod comfort; thy faith hath made thee whole. And the
woman was made whoat hour.

9:23 And when Jesus came into the ruler’s house, and saw tls
and the people making a noise, 9:24 He said unto them, Give place: id is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn.

9:25 Butpeople were put forth, he went in, and took her by
the hand, and the m.

9:26 And the fame hereof went abroad into all that land.

9:27 And us departed thence, two blind men followed him,
crying, and saying, ThDavid, have mercy on us.

9:28 And when he was come into the house, thn came to him:
and Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye that I am able toThey
said unto him, Yea, Lord.

9:29 Then touched he their eyes, saying to your faith be it
unto you.

9:30 And their eyes were opened; and itly charged them,
saying, See that no man know it.

9:31 But they, whe departed, spread abroad his fame in all
that country.

9:32 As they ehold, they brought to him a dumb man
possessed with a devil.

9:33 Andevil was cast out, the dumb spake: and the
multitudes marvelled, sayi never so seen in Israel.

9:34 But the Pharisees said, He casteth outough the prince
of the devils.

9:35 And Jesus went about all the citilages, teaching in
their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kd healing
every sickness and every disease among the people.

9:36 Butsaw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on
them, because theyand were scattered abroad, as sheep having
no shepherd.

9:37 Then saihis disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous,
but the labourers are fray ye therefore the Lord of the
harvest, that he will send forth labois harvest.

10:1 And when he had called unto him his twelve disciples
them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all sickness and all manner of disease.

10:2 Now the names of the twelveare these; The first, Simon,
who is called Peter, and Andrew his broththe son of Zebedee,
and John his brother; 10:3 Philip, and Bartholomew and
Matthew the publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus, whe was Thaddaeus; 10:4 Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot,
who als him.

10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying,to the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans
enter 0:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of
Israel.

10:7 And preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.

10:8 Heal the sick,he lepers, raise the dead, cast out
devils: freely ye have received, fovide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, 10:10
Nor scur journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet
staves: for the s worthy of his meat.

10:11 And into whatsoever city or town ye shallire who in
it is worthy; and there abide till ye go thence.

10:12 Andme into an house, salute it.

10:13 And if the house be worthy, let yoe upon it: but if
it be not worthy, let your peace return to you.

10:soever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when
ye depart out use or city, shake off the dust of your feet.

10:15 Verily I say untohall be more tolerable for the land
of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day o than for that city.

10:16 Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the mlves: be ye
therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.

10:17 of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils,
and they will scin their synagogues; 10:18 And ye shall be
brought before governors anr my sake, for a testimony
against them and the Gentiles.

10:19 But weliver you up, take no thought how or what ye
shall speak: for it shal you in that same hour what ye shall
speak.

10:20 For it is not ye thbut the Spirit of your Father which
speaketh in you.

10:21 And the br deliver up the brother to death, and the
father the child: and the chll rise up against their
parents, and cause them to be put to death.

ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake: but he that
enduretend shall be saved.

10:23 But when they persecute you in this city, fto another:
for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over thesrael, till the Son of man be come.

10:24 The disciple is not above h, nor the servant above his
lord.

10:25 It is enough for the disciple as his master, and the
servant as his lord. If they have called the mthe house
Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his househo
Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall notled; and hid, that shall not be known.

10:27 What I tell you in darknspeak ye in light: and what ye
hear in the ear, that preach ye upon ths.

10:28 And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and
body in:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall
nohe ground without your Father.

10:30 But the very hairs of your head ered.

10:31 Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many spa0:32 Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I
confefore my Father which is in heaven.

10:33 But whosoever shall deny me n, him will I also deny
before my Father which is in heaven.

10:34 Thhat I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to
send peace, but a :35 For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and
theaughter in law against her
mother in law.

10:36 And a man’s foes shold.

10:37 He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthyd he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of
me.

10 that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not
worthy of m He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his
life fe shall find it.

10:40 He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he thah me
receiveth him that sent me.

10:41 He that receiveth a prophet in of a prophet shall
receive a prophet’s reward; and he that receivetous man in
the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man

10:42 And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little onecold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto
you, he s wise lose his reward.

11:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus had made commanding his
twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preir
cities.

11:2 Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Csent two of his disciples, 11:3 And said unto him, Art thou he that
sh or do we look for another?  11:4 Jesus answered and said
unto them, GJohn again those things which ye do hear and
see: 11:5 The blind receisight, and the lame walk, the lepers
are cleansed, and the deaf hear,  raised up, and the poor
have the gospel preached to them.

11:6 And bosoever shall not be offended in me.

11:7 And as they departed, Jesusto the multitudes
concerning John, What went ye out into the wildernesA reed
shaken with the wind?  11:8 But what went ye out for to see? A ed in soft raiment?  behold, they that wear soft clothing are in
kings.

11:9 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto yoe than a prophet.

11:10 For this is he, of whom it is written, Beholdy
messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
ily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there
hath not rater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he
that is least in the kiheaven is greater than he.

11:12 And from the days of John the Baptisw the kingdom of
heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by1:13 For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.

11:14 Anll receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come.

11:15 He that hato hear, let him hear.

11:16 But whereunto shall I liken this generats like unto
children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fe17
And saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we haveunto you, and ye have not lamented.

11:18 For John came neither eatinking, and they say, He hath
a devil.

11:19 The Son of man came eatinging, and they say, Behold a
man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friendans and sinners.
But wisdom is justified of her children.

11:20 Then o upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty
works were done, becaupented not: 11:21 Woe unto thee,
Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! fmighty works, which
were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon,d have
repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.

11:22 But I say untohall be more tolerable for Tyre and
Sidon at the day of judgment, than
11:23 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be
br to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in
thee, had bn Sodom, it would have remained until this day.

11:24 But I say unto  it shall be more tolerable for the land
of Sodom in the day of judgmeor thee.

11:25 At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O rd of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the
wident, and hast revealed them unto babes.

11:26 Even so, Father: for sd good in thy sight.

11:27 All things are delivered unto me of my Fato man
knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Fat the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him.

11:28 Come unll ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will
give you rest.

11:2yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly
in heart: and ind rest unto your souls.

11:30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is:1 At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn; and
his were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn and
to eat.

12n the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him, Behold, thy
disciples do t is not lawful to do upon the sabbath day.

12:3 But he said unto themot read what David did, when he
was an hungred, and they that were wit4 How he entered into
the house of God, and did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for
him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the
priests?  12:5 Or have ye not read in the law, how that on the sabbath
days the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless?
12:6 But I say unto you, That in this place is one greater than the
temple.

12:7 But if ye had known what this meanethl have mercy, and not
sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltFor the Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath day.

12:9 And when he ed thence, he went into their synagogue:
12:10 And, behold, there was h had his hand withered. And
they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to h sabbath days? that
they might accuse him.

12:11 And he said unto thean shall there be among you, that
shall have one sheep, and if it fallt on the sabbath day,
will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out?  12h then is a
man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do wellbbath days.

12:13 Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand.etched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other.

12:14 nt out, and held a council against him, how
they might destroy him.

1en Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and
great multitudehim, and he healed them all; 12:16 And
charged them that they should nim known: 12:17 That it might
be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias , saying, 12:18
Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in ul is
well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew
jto the Gentiles.

12:19 He shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall an his
voice in the streets.

12:20 A bruised reed shall he not break, aax shall he not
quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory.

12:his name shall the Gentiles trust.

12:22 Then was brought unto him on with a devil, blind, and
dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the bdumb both spake
and saw.

12:23 And all the people were amazed, and sathis the son of
David?  12:24 But when the Pharisees heard it, they saellow
doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the dev5 And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom
divst itself is brought to desolation; and every city or
house divided agf shall not stand: 12:26 And if Satan cast
out Satan, he is divided aglf; how shall then his kingdom
stand?  12:27 And if I by Beelzebub cass, by whom do your
children cast them out? therefore they shall be you
12:28 But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom come unto you.

12:29 Or else how can one enter into a strong man’sd spoil
his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he wis house.

12:30 He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathith me scattereth abroad.

12:31 Wherefore I say unto you, All manner d blasphemy shall
be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the  shall
not be forgiven unto men.

12:32 And whosoever speaketh a word e Son of man, it shall
be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against Ghost, it
shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither ild
to come.

12:33 Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or ehe
tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the tree is known by his
f:34 O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good
things?f the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.

12:35 A good man outod treasure of the heart bringeth forth
good things: and an evil man oevil treasure bringeth forth
evil things.

12:36 But I say unto you, Tidle word that men shall speak,
they shall give account thereof in thedgment.

12:37 For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy woshalt be condemned.

12:38 Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharered,
saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee.

12:39 But he anssaid unto them, An evil and adulterous
generation seeketh after a sign shall no sign be given to
it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas: 12:4onas was three
days and three nights in the whale’s belly; so shall  man be
three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

12:41  Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation,
and shall condeme they repented at the preaching of Jonas;
and, behold, a greater thanhere.

12:42 The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment withration, and shall condemn it: for she came from the uttermost
parts of to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a
greater than Solomon is:43 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through
dseeking rest, and findeth none.

12:44 Then he saith, I will return ine from whence I came
out; and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swrnished.

12:45 Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spiicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last
stt man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also
unto this wickion.

12:46 While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and en stood without, desiring to speak with him.

12:47 Then one said untold, thy mother and thy brethren
stand without, desiring to speak with:48 But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my
mother?o are my brethren?  12:49 And he stretched forth his
hand toward his d said, Behold my mother and my brethren!
12:50 For whosoever shall do ther which is in heaven,
the same is my brother, and sister, and mothehe same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea
side.

13: multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he
went into a sht; and the whole multitude stood on the shore.

13:3 And he spake manyto them in parables, saying, Behold, a
sower went forth to sow; 13:4 Asowed, some seeds fell by
the way side, and the fowls came and devoure13:5 Some fell
upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and fhey
sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: 13:6 And when thup, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they
withered awAnd some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked
them:ther fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit,
some an hundredfoxtyfold, some thirtyfold.

13:9 Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.

the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou
unto them in 13:11 He answered and said unto them, Because
it is given unto you to steries of the kingdom of heaven,
but to them it is not given.

13:12 ver hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have
more abundance: but hath not, from him shall be taken away
even that he hath.

13:13 Therk I to them in parables: because they seeing see
not; and hearing theyther do they understand.

13:14 And in them is fulfilled the prophecy  which saith, By
hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and shall
see, and shall not perceive: 13:15 For this people’s heart is s, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have
closedany time they should see with their eyes and hear with
their ears, andderstand with their heart, and should be
converted, and I should heal 6 But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they
heaFor verily I say unto you, That many prophets and righteous men
have dee those things which ye see, and have not seen them;
and to hear thoshich ye hear, and have not heard them.

13:18 Hear ye therefore the pahe sower.

13:19 When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and und
it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was
s heart. This is he which received seed by the way side.

13:20 But heved the seed into stony places, the same is he
that heareth the word, ith joy receiveth it; 13:21 Yet hath
he not root in himself, but durethile: for when tribulation
or persecution ariseth because of the word, he is offended.

13:22 He also that received seed among the thorns iseareth
the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of oke the word, and he becometh unfruitful.

13:23 But he that received  the good ground is he that
heareth the word, and understandeth it; whbeareth fruit, and
bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, so
13:24 Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of
ikened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field: 13:25
But while  his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat,
and went his way.

13n the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then
appeared the .

13:27 So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Siot thou sow good seed in thy field? from whence then hath it
tares?  1aid unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants
said unto him, Wien that we go and gather them up?  13:29
But he said, Nay; lest while up the tares, ye root up also
the wheat with them.

13:30 Let both gror until the harvest: and in the time of
harvest I will say to the reaper ye together first the tares,
and bind them in bundles to burn them:er the wheat into my
barn.

13:31 Another parable put he forth unto th, The kingdom of
heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a masowed
in his field: 13:32 Which indeed is the least of all seeds: but  grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so
that tf the air come and lodge in the branches thereof.

13:33 Another parabpake he unto them; The kingdom of heaven is
like unto leaven, which a  and hid in three measures of
meal, till the whole was leavened.

13:3se things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and
without a panto them: 13:35 That it might be
fulfilled which was spoken by the prong, I will open my
mouth in parables; I will utter things which have becret
from the foundation of the world.

13:36 Then Jesus sent the mul, and went into the house: and
his disciples came unto him, saying, De us the parable of
the tares of the field.

13:37 He answered and saidm, He that soweth the good seed is
the Son of man; 13:38 The field is the good seed are the
children of the kingdom; but the tares are the cthe wicked
one; 13:39 The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvend of the world; and the reapers are the angels.

13:40 As therefore are gathered and burned in the fire; so
shall it be in the end of this:41 The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall
gather kingdom all things that offend, and them which do
iniquity; 13:42 And t them into a furnace of fire: there
shall be wailing and gnashing of :43 Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom
of er. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.

13:44 Again, the kingdom of ike unto treasure hid in a
field; the which when a man hath found, he  for joy thereof
goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that f45 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man,
seeking gls: 13:46 Who, when he had found one pearl of great
price, went and sot he had, and bought it.

13:47 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like uthat was cast
into the sea, and gathered of every kind: 13:48 Which, w
full, they drew to shore, and sat down, and gathered the good into
ve cast the bad away.

13:49 So shall it be at the end of the world: thell come
forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, 13:50 And shaem into the furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of
te Jesus saith unto them, Have ye understood all these things? They
say Yea, Lord.

13:52 Then said he unto them, Therefore every scribe whichcted unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an
householringeth forth out of his treasure things new and
old.

13:53 And it ca, that when Jesus had finished these
parables, he departed thence.

13en he was come into his own country, he taught them in
their synagoguethat they were astonished, and said, Whence
hath this man this wisdom,mighty works?  13:55 Is not this
the carpenter’s son? is not his mot Mary? and his brethren,
James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?  13:5isters, are
they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these :57 And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A
prophethout honour, save in his own country, and in his own
house.

13:58 Andt many mighty works there because of their
unbelief.

14:1 At that time tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus, 14:2
And said unto his servantsJohn the Baptist; he is risen from
the dead; and therefore mighty workorth themselves in him.

14:3 For Herod had laid hold on John, and boud put him in
prison for Herodias’ sake, his brother Philip’s wife.For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her.

14:5 Ae feared the multitude,
because they counted him as a prophet.

14:6 Bs kept, the daughter of Herodias
danced before them, and pleased Herodeupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she
would ask.

he, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me
here John Baphead in a charger.

14:9 And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the ake, and
them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given 0 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.

14:11 And his head wan a charger, and given to the damsel:
and she brought it to her motherAnd his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it, and
went esus.

14:13 When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into aace apart: and when the people had heard thereof, they followed him
onof the cities.

14:14 And Jesus went forth, and saw a great multitude,ved
with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick.

14:15 And s evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This
is a desert place, me is now past; send the multitude away,
that they may go into the vilhemselves victuals.

14:16 But Jesus said unto them, They need not depem to
eat.

14:17 And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves,ishes.

14:18 He said, Bring them hither to me.

14:19 And he commandetitude to sit down on the grass, and
took the five loaves, and the twond looking up to heaven, he
blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves toes, and the
disciples to the multitude.

14:20 And they did all eat, ailled: and they took up of the
fragments that remained twelve baskets :21 And they that had eaten were about five thousand men, beside
womenren.

14:22 And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get intand to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the
multitudes:23 And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a
mountao pray: and when the evening was come, he was there
alone.

14:24 But as now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves:
for the wind was co:25 And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them,
walkinga.

14:26 And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.

14:27 But straius spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer;
it is I; be not afraid.
 Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me
come unto th water.

14:29 And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.

14:30 But when he saw the wins, he was afraid; and
beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save 1 And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him,
and m, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?
14:32 And when  come into the ship, the wind ceased.

14:33 Then they that were in th and worshipped him, saying,
Of a truth thou art the Son of God.

14:3 they were gone over, they came into the land of
Gennesaret.

14:35 An men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent
out into all that cund about, and brought unto him all that
were diseased; 14:36 And besohat they might only touch the
hem of his garment: and as many as touche perfectly whole.

15:1 Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, whiJerusalem, saying, 15:2 Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition
ers? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread.

15:3 But he a said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the
commandment of God by yion?  15:4 For God commanded, saying,
Honour thy father and mother: an curseth father or mother,
let him die the death.

15:5 But ye say, Whhall say to his father or his mother, It
is a gift, by whatsoever thou be profited by me; 15:6 And
honour not his father or his mother, he se. Thus have ye
made the commandment of God of none effect by your tra5:7 Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, 15:8 This
h nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with
their lips; but is far from me.

15:9 But in vain they do worship me, teaching for do
commandments of men.

15:10 And he called the multitude, and said untear, and
understand: 15:11 Not that which goeth into the mouth defiletut that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man.

15:12 Theis disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that
the Pharisees were after they heard this saying?  15:13 But
he answered and said, Every pch my heavenly Father hath not
planted, shall be rooted up.

15:14 Lete: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the
blind lead the blindall fall into the ditch.

15:15 Then answered Peter and said unto him,unto us this
parable.

15:16 And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without ug?  15:17 Do
not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at theth
into the belly, and is cast out into the draught?  15:18 But those
ch proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and
they defile
15:19 For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteriesions, thefts, false witness, blasphemies: 15:20 These are the
things w a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not
a man.

15:21 Thennt thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and
Sidon.

15:22 And,a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and
cried unto him, saymercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David;
my daughter is grievously vexe23 But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and
besoughtng, Send her away; for she crieth after us.

15:24 But he answered andam not sent but unto the lost sheep
of the house of Israel.

15:25 The and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me.

15:26 But he answered andis not meet to take the children’s
bread, and to cast it to dogs.

1she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which
fall from ers’ table.

15:28 Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, gthy
faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was madom that very hour.

15:29 And Jesus departed from thence, and came nig sea of
Galilee; and went up into a mountain, and sat down there.

15:eat multitudes came unto him, having with them those that
were lame, bb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at
Jesus’ feet; and hhem: 15:31 Insomuch that the multitude
wondered, when they saw the dum, the maimed to be whole, the
lame to walk, and the blind to see: and ified the God of
Israel.

15:32 Then Jesus called his disciples unto hid, I have
compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me days, and have nothing to eat: and I will not send them away fasting,
faint in the way.

15:33 And his disciples say unto him, Whence shouldo much
bread in the wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude?  15:3s saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven,
and le fishes.

15:35 And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the gr6 And he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks,
and br and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the
multitude.

15:37did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the
broken meat that seven baskets full.

15:38 And they that did eat were four thousand me women and
children.

15:39 And he sent away the multitude, and took came into the
coasts of Magdala.

16:1 The Pharisees also with the Sadame, and tempting desired
him that he would shew them a sign from heav He answered and said unto them, When it is evening, ye say, It
will bther: for the sky is red.

16:3 And in the morning, It will be foul weday: for the sky
is red and lowering. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern f the
sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?  16:4 A wickulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be
git, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them,
and departed.d when his disciples were come to the other side, they had
forgotten tad.

16:6 Then Jesus said unto them, Take heed and beware of the leavePharisees and of the Sadducees.

16:7 And they reasoned among themselvg, It is because we have
taken no bread.

16:8 Which when Jesus perceiid unto them, O ye of little
faith, why reason ye among yourselves, beave brought no
bread?  16:9 Do ye not yet understand, neither rememberloaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?  16:10
Ne seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets ye
took up?  is it that ye do not understand that I spake it
not to you concerningat ye should beware of the leaven of
the Pharisees and of the SadduceeThen understood they how
that he bade them not beware of the leaven ofut of the
doctrine of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.

16:13 When  into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked
his disciples, saying,men say that I the Son of man am?
16:14 And they said, Some say that thn the Baptist: some,
Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the proph:15 He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?  16:16 And Simon
Peed and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living
God.

16:17 Answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon
Barjona: for flesh aath not revealed it unto thee, but my
Father which is in heaven.

16:1y also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this
rock I will build; and the gates of hell shall not prevail
against it.

16:19 And I wilo thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and
whatsoever thou shalt bih shall be bound in heaven: and
whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth sloosed in heaven.

16:20 Then charged he his disciples that they shoul that
he was Jesus the Christ.

16:21 From that time forth began Jesusis disciples, how
that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many thinlders
and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised agaiird day.

16:22 Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, from thee, Lord: this shall not be unto thee.

16:23 But he turned, anto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan:
thou art an offence unto me: for rest not the things that be
of God, but those that be of men.

16:24 TJesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after
me, let him deny d take up his cross, and follow me.

16:25 For whosoever will save hisll lose it: and whosoever
will lose his life for my sake shall find itr what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose hl? or what shall a man give in exchange for his
soul?  16:27 For the S shall come in the glory of his Father
with his angels; and then he sh every man according to his
works.

16:28 Verily I say unto you, Therestanding here, which shall
not taste of death, till they see the Son ong in his
kingdom.

17:1 And after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James, his
brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart, 17:2 Aansfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and
his raihite as the light.

17:3 And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses atalking
with him.

17:4 Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord good for us
to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacfor
thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.

17:5 While he yet spad, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and
behold a voice out of the clo said, This is my beloved Son,
in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him.d when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and
were sore 7:7 And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not
afraiAnd when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save
Jesus on And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them,
saying, vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again
from the dead.

 his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes
that Elias t come?  17:11 And Jesus answered and said unto
them, Elias truly shalome, and restore all things.

17:12 But I say unto you, That Elias is ady, and they knew
him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they liswise shall
also the Son of man suffer of them.

17:13 Then the disciplood that he spake unto them of John
the Baptist.

17:14 And when they to the multitude, there came to him a
certain man, kneeling down to hiaying, 17:15 Lord, have mercy
on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore or ofttimes he falleth
into the fire, and oft into the water.

17:16 Aht him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.

17:17 Then Jesud and said, O faithless and perverse
generation, how long shall I be wow long shall I suffer you?
bring him hither to me.

17:18 And Jesus re devil; and he departed out of him: and the
child was cured from that

17:19 Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could nohim out?  17:20 And Jesus said unto them, Because of your
unbelief: foI say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed, ye shall his mountain, Remove hence to yonder
place; and it shall remove; and nhall be impossible unto you.

17:21 Howbeit this kind goeth not out bur and fasting.

17:22 And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said untoe Son
of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men: 17:23 And they sl him, and the third day he shall be raised again.

And they were excery.

17:24 And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received try came to Peter, and said, Doth not your master pay tribute?
17:25 He . And when he was come into the house, Jesus
prevented him, saying, Whst thou, Simon? of whom do the kings
of the earth take custom or tribuheir own children, or of
strangers?  17:26 Peter saith unto him, Of stesus saith unto
him, Then are the children free.

17:27 Notwithstandine should offend them, go thou to the sea,
and cast an hook, and take uh that first cometh up; and when
thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalpiece of money: that
take, and give unto them for me and thee.

18:1 A time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is
the greatest in thf heaven?  18:2 And Jesus called a little
child unto him, and set him idst of them, 18:3 And said,
Verily I say unto you, Except ye be conve become as little
children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of hea4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child,
the seatest in the kingdom of heaven.

18:5 And whoso shall receive one succhild in my name
receiveth me.

18:6 But whoso shall offend one of the ones which believe in
me, it were better for him that a millstone werabout his
neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.

18: the world because of offences! for it must needs be that
offences comoe to that man by whom the offence cometh!  18:8
Wherefore if thy handoot offend thee, cut them off, and cast
them from thee: it is better fo enter into life halt or
maimed, rather than having two hands or two e cast into
everlasting fire.

18:9 And if thine eye offend thee, pluc and cast it from
thee: it is better for thee to enter into life with ather
than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire.

18:10 Take heedespise not one of these little ones; for I
say unto you, That in heavels do always behold the face of
my Father which is in heaven.

18:11 Fof man is come to save that which was lost.

18:12 How think ye? if a  hundred sheep, and one of them be
gone astray, doth he not leave the  nine, and goeth into the
mountains, and seeketh that which is gone as3 And if so be
that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth mo
sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray.

18:14 Evennot the will of your Father which is in heaven,
that one of these litthould perish.

18:15 Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against th tell
him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, gained thy brother.

18:16 But if he will not hear thee, then take wi or two
more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word mblished.

18:17 And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto thet if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an
heathen publican.

18:18 Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on ebe bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be
loaven.

18:19 Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree on eouching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of
myhich is in heaven.

18:20 For where two or three are gathered togethere, there
am I in the midst of them.

18:21 Then came Peter to him, andrd, how oft shall my brother
sin against me, and I forgive him? till ss?  18:22 Jesus
saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven timestil
seventy times seven.

18:23 Therefore is the kingdom of heaven lika certain king,
which would take account of his servants.

18:24 And w begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which
owed him ten thousan.

18:25 But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him toand his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment to
be madThe servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying,
Lord, havll.

18:27 Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, anim the debt.

18:28 But the same servant went out, and found one of hiervants, which owed him an hundred pence: and he laid hands on
him, an by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest.

18:29 And his fellowsl down at his feet, and besought him,
saying, Have patience with me, apay thee all.

18:30 And he would not: but went and cast him into prise
should pay the debt.

18:31 So when his fellowservants saw what was were very
sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done.
s lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O
thou wicked sergave thee all that debt, because thou
desiredst me: 18:33 Shouldest no have had compassion on thy
fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee? his lord was
wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he shou
that was due unto him.

18:35 So likewise shall my heavenly Father doyou, if ye
from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trAnd it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these sayings,
he de Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judaea beyond
Jordan; 19:2 And gtudes followed him; and he healed them
there.

19:3 The Pharisees also him, tempting him, and saying unto
him, Is it lawful for a man to putwife for every cause?
19:4 And he answered and said unto them, Have yed, that he
which made them at the beginning made them male and female,
said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall
cs wife: and they twain shall be one flesh?  19:6 Wherefore
they are non, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined
together, let not maner.

19:7 They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writvorcement, and to put her away?  19:8 He saith unto them, Moses
becausness of your hearts suffered you to put away your
wives: but from the it was not so.

19:9 And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his ept it
be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adulterso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery.

19:10 His dis unto him, If the case of the man be so with
his wife, it is not good 
19:11 But he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, savehom it is given.

19:12 For there are some eunuchs, which were so bornir
mother’s womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchnd there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the
kingdon’s sake. He that is able to receive it, let him
receive it.

19:13 there brought unto him little children, that he should
put his hands o pray: and the disciples rebuked them.

19:14 But Jesus said, Suffer lren, and forbid them not, to
come unto me: for of such is the kingdom 

19:15 And he laid his hands on them, and departed thence.

19:16 Andone came and said unto him, Good Master, what good
thing shall I do, thave eternal life?  19:17 And he said
unto him, Why callest thou me gois none good but one, that
is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, mmandments.

19:18 He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt doThou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not
bwitness, 19:19 Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Thou
shalt love our as thyself.

19:20 The young man saith unto him, All these things  from
my youth up: what lack I yet?  19:21 Jesus said unto him, If thoperfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou
sheasure in heaven: and come and follow me.

19:22 But when the young maat saying, he went away
sorrowful: for he had great possessions.

19:2 Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, That
a rich man shalnter into the kingdom of heaven.

19:24 And again I say unto you, It ir a camel to go through
the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enhe kingdom of
God.

19:25 When his disciples heard it, they were exceezed,
saying, Who then can be saved?  19:26 But Jesus beheld them, and them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are
possiblThen answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken
all, a thee; what shall we have therefore?  19:28 And Jesus
said unto them, ay unto you, That ye which have followed me,
in the regeneration when man shall sit in the throne of his
glory, ye also shall sit upon twelvudging the twelve
tribes of Israel.

19:29 And every one that hath fores, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or childres, for my
name’s sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherting life.

19:30 But many that are first shall be last; and the last rst.

20:1 For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an
houwhich went out early in the morning to hire labourers
into his vineyard when he had agreed with the labourers for a penny a day, he
sent thevineyard.

20:3 And he went out about the third hour, and saw others se in the marketplace, 20:4 And said unto them; Go ye also into the
vin whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their
way.

20:5 Aent out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did
likewise.

20:6 And abeventh hour he went out, and found others
standing idle, and saith unty stand ye here all the day
idle?  20:7 They say unto him, Because no s. He saith
unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever isshall ye receive.

20:8 So when even was come, the lord of the vineyarto his
steward, Call the labourers, and give them their hire, beginninlast unto the first.

20:9 And when they came that were hired about thhour, they
received every man a penny.

20:10 But when the first came,posed that they should have
received more; and they likewise received a penny.

20:11 And when they had received it, they murmured against tn
of the house, 20:12 Saying, These last have wrought but one hour, an made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and
heat of the 13 But he answered one of them, and said, Friend, I do thee no
wrong: thou agree with me for a penny?  20:14 Take that
thine is, and go thy l give unto this last, even as unto
thee.

20:15 Is it not lawful for at I will with mine own? Is
thine eye evil, because I am good?  20:16 st shall be first,
and the first last: for many be called, but few cho7 And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples apart
in td said unto them, 20:18 Behold, we go up to Jerusalem;
and the Son of be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto
the scribes, and they shalhim to death, 20:19 And shall
deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, ande, and to crucify
him: and the third day he shall rise again.

20:20 To him the mother of Zebedees children with her sons,
worshipping him, g a certain thing of him.

20:21 And he said unto her, What wilt thou?to him, Grant
that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right han
other on the left, in thy kingdom.

20:22 But Jesus answered and saidnot what ye ask. Are ye
able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of baptized
with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say unto him,e.

20:23 And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, anded with the baptism that I am baptized with: but to sit on my
right ha my left, is not mine to give, but it shall be given
to them for whom red of my Father.

20:24 And when the ten heard it, they were moved wition
against the two brethren.

20:25 But Jesus called them unto him, e know that the
princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, aat are
great exercise authority upon them.

20:26 But it shall not be u: but whosoever will be great
among you, let him be your minister; 20soever will be chief
among you, let him be your servant: 20:28 Even as man came
not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his nsom for many.

20:29 And as they departed from Jericho, a great multied
him.

20:30 And, behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, whed that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O
Lord, tDavid.

20:31 And the multitude rebuked them, because they should holdce: but they cried the more, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou
so.

20:32 And Jesus stood still, and called them, and said, What will yall do unto you?  20:33 They say unto him, Lord, that our
eyes may be 0:34 So Jesus had compassion on them, and touched their eyes: and
immeir eyes received sight, and they followed him.

21:1 And when they dreo Jerusalem, and were come to
Bethphage, unto the mount of Olives, thes two disciples,
21:2 Saying unto them, Go into the village over again
straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose
theing them unto me.

21:3 And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall sard hath
need of them; and straightway he will send them.

21:4 All thi that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by
the prophet, saying, 2 the daughter of Sion, Behold, thy
King cometh unto thee, meek, and si an ass, and a colt the
foal of an ass.

21:6 And the disciples went, Jesus commanded them, 21:7 And
brought the ass, and the colt, and put eir clothes, and they
set him thereon.

21:8 And a very great multitudeir garments in the way;
others cut down branches from the trees, and m in the way.

21:9 And the multitudes that went before, and that folld,
saying, Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in tthe Lord; Hosanna in the highest.

21:10 And when he was come into Jere city was moved,
saying, Who is this?  21:11 And the multitude said, the
prophet of Nazareth of Galilee.

21:12 And Jesus went into the temd, and cast out all them
that sold and bought in the temple, and overtables of the
moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves, 21:d
unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of
prayhave made it a den of thieves.

21:14 And the blind and the lame came  the temple; and he
healed them.

21:15 And when the chief priests andw the wonderful things
that he did, and the children crying in the temaying,
Hosanna to the son of David; they were sore displeased, 21:16 Ato him, Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus saith unto them, Yea;
her read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast
perfected p7 And he left them, and went out of the city
into Bethany; and he lodg
21:18 Now in the morning as he returned into the city, he hungered.

when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it, and found
nothing th leaves only, and said unto it, Let no fruit grow
on thee henceforwardAnd presently the fig tree withered
away.

21:20 And when the disciplethey marvelled, saying, How soon
is the fig tree withered away!  21:21wered and said unto
them, Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and, ye shall
not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also ifsay unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the
sea be done.

21:22 And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, bee
shall receive.

21:23 And when he was come into the temple, the chiend the
elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching, and saidauthority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this
authority?  Jesus answered and said unto them, I also will
ask you one thing, whicll me, I in like wise will tell you
by what authority I do these thinghe baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven, or of men? And
they reh themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven;
he will say unto ud ye not then believe him?  21:26 But if we
shall say, Of men; we feare; for all hold John as a prophet.

21:27 And they answered Jesus, andannot tell. And he said
unto them, Neither tell I you by what authoritese things.

21:28 But what think ye? A certain man had two sons; and 
the first, and said, Son, go work to day in my vineyard.

21:29 He an said, I will not: but afterward he repented, and
went.

21:30 And he  second, and said likewise. And he answered
and said, I go, sir: and w21:31 Whether of them twain did the will of his father? They say unto
irst. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That the
publicansrlots go into the kingdom of God before you.

21:32 For John came untoe way of righteousness, and ye
believed him not: but the publicans andts believed him: and
ye, when ye had seen it, repented not afterward, ght believe
him.

21:33 Hear another parable: There was a certain houswhich
planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and digged a wine, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into
a far21:34 And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent
his servants tndmen, that they might receive the fruits of
it.

21:35 And the husbanhis servants, and beat one, and killed
another, and stoned another.

2 he sent other servants more than the first: and they did
unto them li:37 But last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will
revern.

21:38 But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselis the heir; come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his
inheritancAnd they caught him, and cast him out of the vineyard, and slew
him.

 the lord therefore of the vineyard cometh, what will he do
unto those?  21:41 They say unto him, He will miserably
destroy those wicked men let out his vineyard unto other
husbandmen, which shall render him thn their seasons.

21:42 Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never read in ths, The
stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head er: this is the Lord’s doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?
21:4re say I unto you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from
you, and givion bringing forth the fruits thereof.

21:44 And whosoever shall fallshall be broken: but on
whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him toowder.

21:45 And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his pthey perceived that he spake of them.

21:46 But when they sought to lon him, they feared the
multitude, because they took him for a prophetd Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and
said, 22:2om of heaven is like unto a certain king, which
made a marriage for hi2:3 And sent forth his servants to call
them that were bidden to the wd they would not come.

22:4 Again, he sent forth other servants, sayihem which are
bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and m are
killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage.

22:5 Be light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm,
another to his me: 22:6 And the remnant took his servants,
and entreated them spitefullw them.

22:7 But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he seis armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.

2aith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they
which were bidnot worthy.

22:9 Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as yed,
bid to the marriage.

22:10 So those servants went out into the hig gathered
together all as many as they found, both bad and good: and t
was furnished with guests.

22:11 And when the king came in to see th he saw there a man
which had not on a wedding garment: 22:12 And he shim,
Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? Aspeechless.

22:13 Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and
take him away, and cast him into outer darkness, there shall be
weenashing of teeth.

22:14 For many are called, but few are chosen.

22:nt the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might
entangle him in his 16 And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians,
sayi, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of
God in truth, net thou for any man: for thou regardest not
the person of men.

22:17 Trefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give
tribute unto Caesar, 2:18 But Jesus perceived their
wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, es?  22:19 Shew me
the tribute money. And they brought unto him a pennnd he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription?
22:21 Tto him, Caesar’s. Then saith he unto them, Render
therefore unto Caehings which are Caesar’s; and unto God the
things that are God’s.
 they had heard these words, they marvelled, and left him,
and went th22:23 The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is
ction, and asked him, 22:24 Saying, Master, Moses said, If a
man die, children, his brother shall marry his wife, and
raise up seed unto his22:25 Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first, when he
ha wife, deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto
his brother:wise the second also, and the third, unto the
seventh.

22:27 And laste woman died also.

22:28 Therefore in the resurrection whose wife sha of the
seven?  for they all had her.

22:29 Jesus answered and said uYe do err, not knowing the
scriptures, nor the power of God.

22:30 Foeither marry, nor are given in
marriage, but are as the angels of God surrection of the dead, have ye not read
that which was spoken unto yo saying, 22:32 I am the God of
Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the ob?  God is not the
God of the dead, but of the living.

22:33 And wheitude heard this, they were astonished at his
doctrine.

22:34 But wheisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees
to silence, they were gagether.

22:35 Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a questing him, and saying, 22:36 Master, which is the great commandment
in t2:37 Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God with all thnd with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.

22:38 This is the first commandment.

22:39 And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thur as
thyself.

22:40 On these two commandments hang all the law and t.

22:41 While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,ying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto
him, The
22:43 He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him LordThe LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,
till I make thi thy footstool?  22:45 If David then call him
Lord, how is he his son?nd no man was able to answer him a
word, neither durst any man from thrth ask him any more
questions.

23:1 Then spake Jesus to the multitudhis disciples, 23:2
Saying The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses3:3 All
therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and doot ye after their works: for they say, and do not.

23:4 For they bindrdens and grievous to be borne, and lay
them on men’s shoulders; butselves will not move them with
one of their fingers.

23:5 But all thehey do for to be seen of men: they make
broad their phylacteries, and e borders of their garments,
23:6 And love the uppermost rooms at fease chief seats in
the synagogues, 23:7 And greetings in the markets, analled of
men, Rabbi, Rabbi.

23:8 But be not ye called Rabbi: for one ter, even Christ;
and all ye are brethren.

23:9 And call no man your n the earth: for one is your
Father, which is in heaven.

23:10 Neithealled masters: for one is your Master, even
Christ.

23:11 But he thatst among you shall be your servant.

23:12 And whosoever shall exalt h be abased; and he that
shall humble himself shall be exalted.

23:13 o you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut
up the kingdom ogainst men: for ye neither go in yourselves,
neither suffer ye them thtering to go in.

23:14 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocriteevour
widows’ houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: thereforeeceive the greater damnation.

23:15 Woe unto you, scribes and Phariseites! for ye compass
sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he i make him
twofold more the child of hell than yourselves.

23:16 Woe u ye blind guides, which say, Whosoever shall swear
by the temple, it ibut whosoever shall swear by the gold of
the temple, he is a debtor!  ols and blind: for whether is
greater, the gold, or the temple that sathe gold?  23:18
And, Whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothinsoever
sweareth by the gift that is upon it, he is guilty.

23:19 Ye find: for whether is greater, the gift, or the
altar that sanctifieth t23:20 Whoso therefore shall swear by
the altar, sweareth by it, and bys thereon.

23:21 And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it,m
that dwelleth therein.

23:22 And he that shall swear by heaven, swe throne of
God, and by him that sitteth thereon.

23:23 Woe unto you, nd Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay
tithe of mint and anise and cummie omitted the weightier
matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faithught ye to have
done, and not to leave the other undone.

23:24 Ye bli which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.

23:25 Woe unto you, scrarisees, hypocrites! for ye make
clean the outside of the cup and of t, but within they are
full of extortion and excess.

23:26 Thou blind cleanse first that which is within the cup
and platter, that the outsim may be clean also.

23:27 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypoc ye are like
unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outre
within full of dead men’s bones, and of all uncleanness.

23:28 E also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within
ye are full of hnd iniquity.

23:29 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! bbuild the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the
rig:30 And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers,
we would not hartakers with them in the blood of the
prophets.

23:31 Wherefore ye bs unto yourselves, that ye are the
children of them which killed the p3:32 Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers.

23:33 Ye serpents, ion of vipers, how can ye escape the
damnation of hell?  23:34 Wherefo, I send unto you prophets,
and wise men, and scribes: and some of thel kill and crucify;
and some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogursecute
them from city to city: 23:35 That upon you may come all the rlood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the
blharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple
and the altar say unto you, All these things shall come upon this
generation.

23:3, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and
stonest them which aro thee, how often would I have gathered
thy children together, even ashereth her chickens under her
wings, and ye would not!  23:38 Behold,  is left unto you
desolate.

23:39 For I say unto you, Ye shall not seforth, till ye
shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the:1 And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple: and his
disciplesim for to shew him the buildings of the temple.

24:2 And Jesus said uSee ye not all these things? verily I
say unto you, There shall not be one stone upon another,
that shall not be thrown down.

24:3 And as hthe mount of Olives, the disciples came unto
him privately, saying, Ten shall these things be? and what
shall be the sign of thy coming, andd of the world?  24:4
And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heedman deceive
you.

24:5 For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Chshall
deceive many.

24:6 And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wart ye be not
troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the 
yet.

24:7 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against
and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes,
in diver

24:8 All these are the beginning of sorrows.

24:9 Then shall they dup to be afflicted, and shall kill
you: and ye shall be hated of all n my name’s sake.

24:10 And then shall many be offended, and shall banother,
and shall hate one another.

24:11 And many false prophets shnd shall deceive many.

24:12 And because iniquity shall abound, the ly shall wax
cold.

24:13 But he that shall endure unto the end, the sae saved.

24:14 And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in ald for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.

24:15 herefore shall see the abomination of desolation,
spoken of by Daniel  stand in the holy place, (whoso
readeth, let him understand:) 24:16 Them which be in Judaea
flee into the mountains: 24:17 Let him which isusetop not
come down to take any thing out of his house: 24:18 Neitherwhich is in the field return back to take his clothes.

24:19 And woe hat are with child, and to them that give
suck in those days!  24:20 Bthat your flight be not in the
winter, neither on the sabbath day: 24:n shall be great
tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of to this
time, no, nor ever shall be.

24:22 And except those days shoulened, there should no flesh
be saved: but for the elect’s sake thosell be shortened.

24:23 Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here ior
there; believe it not.

24:24 For there shall arise false Christs,  prophets, and
shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if issible, they shall deceive the very elect.

24:25 Behold, I have told 

24:26 Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the
dest forth: behold, he is in the secret chambers; believe it
not.

24:27 e lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even
unto the west; soo the coming of the Son of man be.

24:28 For wheresoever the carcase will the eagles be
gathered together.

24:29 Immediately after the trithose days shall the sun be
darkened, and the moon shall not give her  the stars shall
fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall: 24:30
And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: anll all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of
main the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.

24:31 And he shal angels with a great sound of a trumpet,
and they shall gather togethect from the four winds, from one
end of heaven to the other.

24:32 Noparable of the fig tree; When his branch is yet
tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh: 24:33
So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is
near, even at the doors.

24:34 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass, till all
these things be fulfilled.

24:35 Heaven and earth shall pass away, bt my words shall not pass
away.

24:36 But of that day and hour knowet no, not the angels of
heaven, but my Father only.

24:37 But as the dshall also the coming of the Son
of man be.

24:38 For as in the days efore the flood they were eating
and drinking, marrying and giving in ntil the day that Noe
entered into the ark, 24:39 And knew not until tme, and
took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of man0 Then shall two be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the
othe:41 Two women shall be grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken,
ar left.

24:42 Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord do24:43 But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in
whathief would come, he would have watched, and would not
have suffered h be broken up.

24:44 Therefore be ye also ready: for in such an hour  not
the Son of man cometh.

24:45 Who then is a faithful and wise serm his lord hath made
ruler over his household, to give them meat in du24:46
Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find

24:47 Verily I say unto you, That he shall make him ruler over all h24:48 But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord
delming; 24:49 And shall begin to smite his
fellowservants, and to eat an the drunken; 24:50 The lord
of that servant shall come in a day when ot for him, and
in an hour that he is not aware of, 24:51 And shall cur,
and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be
weeashing of teeth.

25:1 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened untins,
which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.

2e of them were wise, and five were foolish.

25:3 They that were foolieir lamps, and took no oil with
them: 25:4 But the wise took oil in th with their lamps.

25:5 While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbept.

25:6 And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom ye out to meet him.

25:7 Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed t

25:8 And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for ou gone out.

25:9 But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for
yourse0 And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that
were  in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut.

25:11 Afterward he other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open
to us.

25:12 But he answer Verily I say unto you, I know you not.

25:13 Watch therefore, for yeer the day nor the hour
wherein the Son of man cometh.

25:14 For the  heaven is as a man travelling into a far
country, who called his own d delivered unto them his
goods.

25:15 And unto one he gave five talether two, and to
another one; to every man according to his several abtraightway took his journey.

25:16 Then he that had received the fivet and traded with
the same, and made them other five talents.

25:17 A he that had received two, he also gained other two.

25:18 But he thaed one went and digged in the earth, and
hid his lord’s money.

25:1ng time the lord of those servants cometh, and
reckoneth with them.

2 he that had received five talents came and brought other
five talentsord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents:
behold, I have gained besie talents more.

25:21 His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good anervant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee
runy things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.

25:22 He also that hatwo talents came and said, Lord, thou
deliveredst unto me two talents:ave gained two other
talents beside them.

25:23 His lord said unto hie, good and faithful servant;
thou hast been faithful over a few thingake thee ruler over
many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I
knew thee rt an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown,
and gathering where ot strawed: 25:25 And I was afraid, and
went and hid thy talent in thehere thou hast that is
thine.

25:26 His lord answered and said unto hcked and slothful
servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, where
I have not strawed: 25:27 Thou oughtest therefore to have put mthe exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine
own 8 Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which
hath 
25:29 For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have
 but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that
which he hat And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there
shallng and gnashing of teeth.

25:31 When the Son of man shall come in hisd all the holy
angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of h25:32
And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separe from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the
goats: 25:33all set the sheep on his right hand, but the
goats on the left.

25:34l the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye
blessed of my Fatit the kingdom prepared for you from the
foundation of the world: 25:3 an hungred, and ye gave me
meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink:tranger, and ye
took me in: 25:36 Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sicksited
me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.

25:37 Then shall the s answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we
thee an hungred, and fed thee?ty, and gave thee drink?  25:38
When saw we thee a stranger, and took r naked, and clothed
thee?  25:39 Or when saw we thee sick, or in prisme unto
thee?  25:40 And the King shall answer and say unto them, Veriunto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these
mn, ye have done it unto me.

25:41 Then shall he say also unto them on hand, Depart from
me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for and his
angels: 25:42 For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I ty, and ye gave me no drink: 25:43 I was a stranger, and ye took
me nod, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye
visited me not.
en shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee
an hungrirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in
prison, and did not minithee?  25:45 Then shall he answer
them, saying, Verily I say unto you, as ye did it not to one
of the least of these, ye did it not to me.

 these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the
righteous inernal.

26:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sasaid unto his disciples, 26:2 Ye know that after two days is the
feastassover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.

26:3 Then asogether the chief priests, and the scribes, and
the elders of the peophe palace of the high priest, who was
called Caiaphas, 26:4 And consulhey might take Jesus by
subtilty, and kill him.

26:5 But they said, N feast day, lest there be an uproar
among the people.

26:6 Now when Jin Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
26:7 There came unto him aving an alabaster box of very
precious ointment, and poured it on his he sat at meat.

26:8 But when his disciples saw it, they had indignaing, To
what purpose is this waste?  26:9 For this ointment might haved for much, and given to the poor.

26:10 When Jesus understood it, he them, Why trouble ye the
woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon11 For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always.

2r in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it
for my 
26:13 Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached
in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done,
be told for a memorial of her.

26:14 Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the
chief priests, 26:15 And said unto them, What will ye give me, and I
will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty
pieces of silver.

26:16 And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him.

26:17 Now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread the disciples
came to Jesus, saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for
thee to eat the passover?  26:18 And he said, Go into the city to such
a man, and say unto him, The Maith, My time is at hand; I will
keep the passover at thy house with my.

26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they mdy the passover.

26:20 Now when the even was come, he sat down with t

26:21 And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one  betray me.

26:22 And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every nto him, Lord, is it I?  26:23 And he answered and said, He
that dippeth me in the dish, the same shall betray me.

26:24 The Son of man goe written of him: but woe unto that
man by whom the Son of man is betrad been good for that man
if he had not been born.

26:25 Then Judas, wed him, answered and said, Master, is it
I?  He said unto him, Thou ha26:26 And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and
bnd gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is
my body.

26took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them,
saying, Drink ye a26:28 For this is my blood of the new
testament, which is shed for manremission of sins.

26:29 But I say unto you, I will not drink hencefos fruit of
the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in mys
kingdom.

26:30 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into tof
Olives.

26:31 Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offendedme this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the
se flock shall be scattered abroad.

26:32 But after I am risen again, before you into Galilee.

26:33 Peter answered and said unto him, Thou shall be
offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended.

26:id unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this night,
before the cock  shalt deny me thrice.

26:35 Peter said unto him, Though I should die, yet will I
not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples.

26:th Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and
saith unto the Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder.

26:37 And he took with him Pe two sons of Zebedee, and
began to be sorrowful and very heavy.

26:3saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even
unto death: te, and watch with me.

26:39 And he went a little farther, and fell on, and prayed,
saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pas
nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.

26:40 And he cometh unciples, and findeth them asleep, and
saith unto Peter, What, could ye with me one hour?  26:41
Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptaspirit indeed
is willing, but the flesh is weak.

26:42 He went away aecond time, and prayed, saying, O my
Father, if this cup may not pass me, except I drink it, thy
will be done.

26:43 And he came and found p again: for their eyes were
heavy.

26:44 And he left them, and went  and prayed the third
time, saying the same words.

26:45 Then cometh disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on
now, and take your rest: behor is at hand, and the Son of
man is betrayed into the hands of sinnersse, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that doth betray
me.

26:47he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and
with him a great with swords and staves, from the chief
priests and elders of the peop Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I
shallsame is he: hold him fast.

26:49 And forthwith he came to Jesus, and  master; and
kissed him.

26:50 And Jesus said unto him, Friend, whereou come? Then
came they, and laid hands on Jesus and took him.

26:51 d, one of them which were with Jesus stretched out his
hand, and drew  and struck a servant of the high priest’s,
and smote off his ear.

 said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place:
for all take the sword shall perish with the sword.

26:53 Thinkest thou that Iow pray to my Father, and he shall
presently give me more than twelve  angels?  26:54 But how
then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that tst be?  26:55
In that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye cagainst a thief with swords and staves for to take me? I sat daily
witing in the temple, and ye laid no hold on me.

26:56 But all this was t the scriptures of the prophets might
be fulfilled. Then all the discook him, and fled.

26:57 And they that had laid hold on Jesus led himiaphas
the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembleBut Peter followed him afar off unto the high priest’s palace,
and wd sat with the servants, to see the end.

26:59 Now the chief priests, and all the council, sought
false witness against Jesus, to put him t But found
none: yea, though many false witnesses came, yet found theyast came two false witnesses, 26:61 And said, This fellow said, I
am atroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.

26:62 And the t arose, and said unto him, Answerest thou
nothing? what is it which tss against thee?  26:63 But Jesus
held his peace, And the high priest nd said unto him, I
adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us w be the
Christ, the Son of God.

26:64 Jesus saith unto him, Thou hastertheless I say unto
you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sittinight hand
of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.

26:65 Then thst rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken
blasphemy; what further ne of witnesses? behold, now ye have
heard his blasphemy.

26:66 What they answered and said, He is guilty of death.

26:67 Then did they spitce, and buffeted him; and others
smote him with the palms of their hanaying, Prophesy unto
us, thou Christ, Who is he that smote thee?  26:6 sat
without in the palace: and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou aith Jesus of Galilee.

26:70 But he denied before them all, saying, I  thou
sayest.

26:71 And when he was gone out into the porch, another m,
and said unto them that were there, This fellow was also with Jesush.

26:72 And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.

26er a while came unto him they that stood by, and said to
Peter, Surely art one of them; for thy speech bewrayeth
thee.

26:74 Then began he d to swear, saying, I know not the man.
And immediately the cock crew. Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said unto him,
Before the chou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and
wept bitterly.

27:1 Whing was come, all the chief priests and elders of
the people took coun Jesus to put him to death: 27:2 And
when they had bound him, they ledand delivered him to
Pontius Pilate the governor.

27:3 Then Judas, whrayed him, when he saw that he was
condemned, repented himself, and brn the thirty pieces of
silver to the chief priests and elders, 27:4 Sae sinned in
that I have betrayed the innocent blood. And they said, Whto us? see thou to that.

27:5 And he cast down the pieces of silver ile, and
departed, and went and hanged himself.

27:6 And the chief prihe silver pieces, and said, It is not
lawful for to put them into the  because it is the price of
blood.

27:7 And they took counsel, and bohem the potter’s field,
to bury strangers in.

27:8 Wherefore that fled, The field of blood, unto this
day.

27:9 Then was fulfilled that poken by Jeremy the prophet,
saying, And they took the thirty pieces othe price of him
that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel 27:10
And gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord appointed med Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him,
saying,the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou
sayest.

27:12 Andas accused of the chief priests and elders, he
answered nothing.

27:1d Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they
witness again27:14 And he answered him to never a word;
insomuch that the governor reatly.

27:15 Now at that feast the governor was wont to release untole a prisoner, whom they would.

27:16 And they had then a notable priled Barabbas.

27:17 Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilat
them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus which
Christ?  27:18 For he knew that for envy they had delivered
him.

27:1was set down on the judgment seat, his wife sent unto
him, saying, Havhing to do with that just man: for I have
suffered many things this daam because of him.

27:20 But the chief priests and elders persuaded te that
they should ask Barabbas, and destroy Jesus.

27:21 The governo and said unto them, Whether of the twain
will ye that I release unto  said, Barabbas.

27:22 Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then wwhich is
called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified.

the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they
cried out theng, Let him be crucified.

27:24 When Pilate saw that he could prevail but that rather a
tumult was made, he took water, and washed his handtude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see
ye t25 Then answered all the people, and said, His blood be on us, and
on n.

27:26 Then released he Barabbas unto them: and when he had scourgee delivered him to be crucified.

27:27 Then the soldiers of the goveresus into the common
hall, and gathered unto him the whole band of sol:28 And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe.

27:29 And wad platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon
his head, and a reed in hand: and they bowed the knee before
him, and mocked him, saying, Haithe Jews!  27:30 And they
spit upon him, and took the reed, and smote ead.

27:31 And after that they had mocked him, they took the robe offand put his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him.

27:3ey came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name:
him they compear his cross.

27:33 And when they were come unto a place called Golgois to
say, a place of a skull, 27:34 They gave him vinegar to drink mi gall: and when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink.

27:35 And ied him, and parted his garments, casting lots:
that it might be fulfi was spoken by the prophet, They
parted my garments among them, and upre did they cast lots.

27:36 And sitting down they watched him there;set up over
his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF
27:38 Then were there two thieves crucified with him, one on the righ another on the left.

27:39 And they that passed by reviled him, waggeads, 27:40
And saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the
crosikewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes
and elder:42 He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he
be the King of Isra now come down from the cross, and we
will believe him.

27:43 He trusd; let him deliver him now, if he will have him:
for he said, I am the.

27:44 The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the sameth.

27:45 Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the lae ninth hour.

27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud ing,
Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God, why hrsaken me?  27:47 Some of them that stood there, when they
heard that,is man calleth for Elias.

27:48 And straightway one of them ran, and nge, and filled
it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to7:49 The rest said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to
save50 Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the
gh And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the
top tom; and the earth did quake, and the rocks rent; 27:52
And the graves w and many bodies of the saints which slept
arose, 27:53 And came out os after his resurrection, and
went into the holy city, and appeared un27:54 Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching
Jee earthquake, and those things that were done, they
feared greatly, say this was the Son of God.

27:55 And many women were there beholding which followed
Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: 27:56 Among wary
Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother es children.

27:57 When the even was come, there came a rich man of A,
named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus’ disciple: 27:58 He went  and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body
to be de27:59 And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean
lin27:60 And laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn
out in the ro rolled a great stone to the door of the
sepulchre, and departed.

27:re was Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over
against the se27:62 Now the next day, that followed the day of the preparation, the
ts and Pharisees came together unto Pilate, 27:63 Saying,
Sir, we remethat deceiver said, while he was yet alive,
After three days I will ri27:64 Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the
thirt his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and
say unto the pe risen from the dead: so the last error
shall be worse than the first.e said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as
sure as ye they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone,
and setting
28:1 In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first
 week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the
sepulchre.

2ehold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the
Lord descendeaven, and came and rolled back the stone from
the door, and sat upon His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as
snow: 28:fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as
dead men.

28:5 And tanswered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for
I know that ye seekhich was crucified.

28:6 He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. the place
where the Lord lay.

28:7 And go quickly, and tell his disc he is risen from the
dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galie shall ye
see him: lo, I have told you.

28:8 And they departed quickhe sepulchre with fear and great
joy; and did run to bring his discipl28:9 And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them,
s hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and
worshipped him.

28aid Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren
that they go ie, and there shall they see me.

28:11 Now when they were going, behol the watch came into
the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all tthat were
done.

28:12 And when they were assembled with the elders, aen
counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, 28:13 Saying, Sayisciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.

28:14 And ome to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him,
and secure you.

2hey took the money, and did as they were taught: and this
saying is coorted among the Jews until this day.

28:16 Then the eleven disciples y into Galilee, into a
mountain where Jesus had appointed them.

28:17n they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted.

28:18 And Jesu spake unto them, saying, All power is given
unto me in heaven and in 8:19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the
namFather, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: 28:20
Teaching them to l things whatsoever I have commanded you:
and, lo, I am with you alwayto the end of the world. Amen.




The Gospel According to Saint Mark
 beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God; 1:2
As it is the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before
thy face, which shal thy way before thee.

1:3 The voice of one crying in the wilderness,  the way of
the Lord, make his paths straight.

1:4 John did baptize iderness, and preach the baptism of
repentance for the remission of sind there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of
Jerusalere all baptized of him in the river of Jordan,
confessing their sins.
ohn was clothed with camel’s hair, and with a girdle of a
skin about and he did eat locusts and wild honey; 1:7 And
preached, saying, Therne mightier than I after me, the
latchet of whose shoes I am not worthop down and unloose.

1:8 I indeed have baptized you with water: but hly Ghost.

1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from of John in Jordan.

1:10 And straightway coming up out of the water,  heavens
opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him: 1:11 came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I
aased.

1:12 And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wildernessd he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan;
and waswild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.

1:14 Now after that ut in prison, Jesus came into Galilee,
preaching the gospel of the kind, 1:15 And saying, The time
is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is apent ye, and
believe the gospel.

1:16 Now as he walked by the sea of he saw Simon and Andrew
his brother casting a net into the sea: for thshers.

1:17 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will ma become fishers of men.

1:18 And straightway they forsook their nets,wed him.

1:19 And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw Jaon of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship
mendings.

1:20 And straightway he called them: and they left their father
Zeip with the hired servants, and went after him.

1:21 And they went in and straightway on the sabbath day
he entered into the synagogue, and1:22 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as
oad authority, and not as the scribes.

1:23 And there was in their synan with an unclean spirit;
and he cried out, 1:24 Saying, Let us aloneve we to do with
thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroow thee
who thou art, the Holy One of God.

1:25 And Jesus rebuked himHold thy peace, and come out of
him.

1:26 And when the unclean spirithim, and cried with a loud
voice, he came out of him.

1:27 And they wazed, insomuch that they questioned among
themselves, saying, What thi what new doctrine is this? for
with authority commandeth he even the spirits, and they do
obey him.

1:28 And immediately his fame spread aughout all the region
round about Galilee.

1:29 And forthwith, when tome out of the synagogue, they
entered into the house of Simon and And James and John.

1:30 But Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick of a fevn they tell
him of her.

1:31 And he came and took her by the hand, aner up; and
immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto the And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that
wer, and them that were possessed with devils.

1:33 And all the city wasogether at the door.

1:34 And he healed many that were sick of diversand cast
out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, becausw him.

1:35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, h and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.

1:36 And Simonthat were with him followed after him.

1:37 And when they had found hid unto him, All men seek for
thee.

1:38 And he said unto them, Let uthe next towns, that I may
preach there also: for therefore came I forAnd he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and
cast o.

1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling do, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

1:41 Amoved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched
him, and saith  I will; be thou clean.

1:42 And as soon as he had spoken, immediatelsy departed
from him, and he was cleansed.

1:43 And he straitly chargd forthwith sent him away; 1:44
And saith unto him, See thou say nothian: but go thy way,
shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleae things
which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.

1:45 But ht, and began to publish it much, and to blaze
abroad the matter, insomesus could no more openly enter into
the city, but was without in dese: and they came to him from
every quarter.

2:1 And again he entered iaum after some days; and it was
noised that he was in the house.

2:2 ghtway many were gathered together, insomuch that there
was no room tothem, no, not so much as about the door: and he
preached the word unto3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was
bor.

2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they
let down erein the sick of the palsy lay.

2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he se sick of the palsy,
Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.

2:6 But there waof the scribes sitting there, and reasoning
in their hearts, 2:7 Why dan thus speak blasphemies? who can
forgive sins but God only?  2:8 Andly when Jesus perceived
in his spirit that they so reasoned within thee said unto
them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?  2:9 Whetasier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or
tse, and take up thy bed, and walk?  2:10 But that ye may
know that thean hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he
saith to the sick of the p I say unto thee, Arise, and take
up thy bed, and go thy way into thin2:12 And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before
insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God,
saying, We neve this fashion.

2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all ude
resorted unto him, and he taught them.

2:14 And as he passed by, e son of Alphaeus sitting at
the receipt of custom, and said unto him, he arose and
followed him.

2:15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus at in his house,
many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesdisciples: for there were many, and they followed him.

2:16 And when s and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and
sinners, they said untoples, How is it that he eateth and
drinketh with publicans and sinnersen Jesus heard it, he
saith unto them, They that are whole have no neephysician,
but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, b
to repentance.

2:18 And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees ust: and
they come and say unto him, Why do the disciples of John and orisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?  2:19 And Jesus said unto
thehe children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom
is with the as they have the bridegroom with them, they
cannot fast.

2:20 But thl come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away
from them, and then shfast in those days.

2:21 No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on aent: else
the new piece that filled it up taketh away from the old, an
is made worse.

2:22 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: el wine
doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottlesrred: but new wine must be put into new bottles.

2:23 And it came to t he went through the corn fields on the
sabbath day; and his disciple they went, to pluck the ears
of corn.

2:24 And the Pharisees said unhold, why do they on the
sabbath day that which is not lawful?  2:25 A unto them,
Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and wgred, he, and they that were with him?  2:26 How he went into the
housr the high priest, and did eat the
shewbread, which is not lawful to ethe priests, and gave
also to them which were with him?  2:27 And he shem, The
sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: 2:28 The Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.

3:1 And he entered again iynagogue; and there was a man there
which had a withered hand.

3:2 Anched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath
day; that they mighm.

3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand
fAnd he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath
days, oil? to save life, or to kill? But they held their
peace.

3:5 And whenked round about on them with anger, being
grieved for the hardness of ts, he saith unto the man,
Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched nd his hand was
restored whole as the other.

3:6 And the Pharisees weand straightway took counsel with
the Herodians against him, how they oy him.

3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea:at multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, 3:8 And
from and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and they
about Tyre and Sidot multitude, when they had heard what
great things he did, came unto hnd he spake to his disciples, that a small ship should wait on
him bece multitude, lest they should throng him.

3:10 For he had healed manythat they pressed upon him for
to touch him, as many as had plagues.

unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and
cried, s art the Son of God.

3:12 And he straitly charged them that they shou him known.

3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto hiould: and they came unto him.

3:14 And he ordained twelve, that they ith him, and that he
might send them forth to preach, 3:15 And to haveeal
sicknesses, and to cast out devils: 3:16 And Simon he surnamed Petd James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and
he surnoanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: 3:18 And
Andrew, and Philip, lomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and
James the son of Alphaeus, and Thad Simon the Canaanite,
3:19 And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed hiy went into
an house.

3:20 And the multitude cometh together again, sy could not
so much as eat bread.

3:21 And when his friends heard of ent out to lay hold on
him: for they said, He is beside himself.

3:22ribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath
Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils.

3:23 And he called them, and said unto them in parables, How
can Satan cast out Satan?  3:24e divided against
itself, that kingdom cannot stand.

3:25 And if a hovided against itself, that house cannot
stand.

3:26 And if Satan risegainst himself, and be divided, he cannot
stand, but hath an end.

3:2ouse, and spoil his goods,
except he will first bind the strong man; ayou, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons
of men, and blasphemies heme against the Holy Ghost hath never
forgiveness, but is in danger oit.

3:31 There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing
wout him, and they said unto him, Behold,
thy mother and thy brethren wther, or my brethren?
3:34 And he looked round about on them which satsoever shall do the
will of God, the same is my brother, and my sisterwas
gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a shiand.

4:2 And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto th: 4:4
And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, andAnd some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and
immedisprang up, because it had no depth of earth: 4:6 But
when the sun was ay.

4:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and chokeielded no fruit.

4:8 And other fell on good ground, and did yield fru sixty, and
some an hundred.

4:9 And he said unto them, He that hath  when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve
asked of him the parable.

4:11 And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to mystery
of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all there done in parables: 4:12 That seeing they may see, and not
perceive; g they may hear, and not understand; lest at any
time they should be cand their sins should be forgiven them.

4:13 And he said unto them, Kthis parable? and how then
will ye know all parables?  4:14 The sower ord.

4:15 And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; but
when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the
word that was sown in their hearts.

4:16 And these are they likewiich are sown on stony ground; who,
when they have heard the word, immeceive it with gladness;
4:17 And have no root in themselves, and so enr a time:
afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the woe,
immediately they are offended.

4:18 And these are they which are sthorns; such as hear the
word, 4:19 And the cares of this world, and tulness of
riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke theit becometh unfruitful.

4:20 And these are they which are sown on goouch as hear
the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirme
sixty, and some an hundred.

4:21 And he said unto them, Is a candlto be put under a
bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candl22 For
there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither wakept secret, but that it should come abroad.

4:23 If any man have ear let him hear.

4:24 And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: wisure
ye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shaliven.

4:25 For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath om him shall be taken even that which he hath.

4:26 And he said, So iom of God, as if a man should cast
seed into the ground; 4:27 And shouand rise night and day,
and the seed should spring and grow up, he know.

4:28 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blad ear, after that the full corn in the ear.

4:29 But when the fruit isorth, immediately he putteth in
the sickle, because the harvest is comd he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with
what chall we compare it?  4:31 It is like a grain of
mustard seed, which, wown in the earth, is less than all
the seeds that be in the earth: 4:3it is sown, it groweth
up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and sh great
branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shad4:33 And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they
o hear it.

4:34 But without a parable spake he not unto them: and whee
alone, he expounded all things to his disciples.

4:35 And the same  was come, he saith unto them, Let
us pass over unto the other side.

they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as
he was in the here were also with him other little ships.

4:37 And there arose a grf wind, and the waves beat into
the ship, so that it was now full.

4:was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow:
and they awakeay unto him, Master, carest thou not that we
perish?  4:39 And he arosuked the wind, and said unto the
sea, Peace, be still. And the wind cehere was a great calm.

4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearis it that ye
have no faith?  4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and sanother, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea
obe1 And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into
the country enes.

5:2 And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, 5:3 Who had his
dwelling amon; and no man could bind him, no, not with
chains: 5:4 Because that he ften bound with fetters and
chains, and the chains had been plucked asm, and the
fetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him.

ays, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the
tombs, crying,g himself with stones.

5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and him, 5:7 And
cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do witus,
thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou tor.

5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My
name is Lee are many.

5:10 And he besought him much that he would not send themf
the country.

5:11 Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a greswine
feeding.

5:12 And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us ine,
that we may enter into them.

5:13 And forthwith Jesus gave them the unclean spirits went
out, and entered into the swine: and the herdly down a
steep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) anked in the sea.

5:14 And they that fed the swine fled, and told it in and in
the country. And they went out to see what it was that was donome to Jesus, and see him that was possessed with the
devil, and had tt
mind: and they were afraid.

5:16 And they that saw it told them howthat was
possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine.

5:1 began to pray him to depart out of their coasts.

5:18 And when he wa the ship, he that had been possessed
with the devil prayed him that he with him.

5:19 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, o
thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for
tath had compassion on thee.

5:20 And he departed, and began to publispolis how great
things Jesus had done for him: and all men did marvel.when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side,
much peoed unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.

5:22 And, behold, there co the rulers of the synagogue,
Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he s feet, 5:23 And
besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lietoint of
death: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she ma; and she shall live.

5:24 And Jesus went with him; and much people f, and
thronged him.

5:25 And a certain woman, which had an issue of bve years,
5:26 And had suffered many things of many physicians, and hal that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse,
5:27 ad heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and
touched his garment.
she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.

5:29 And y the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she
felt in her body thahealed of that plague.

5:30 And Jesus, immediately knowing in himselftue had gone
out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who 
clothes?  5:31 And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the
multiting thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?  5:32 And
he looked round ae her that had done this thing.

5:33 But the woman fearing and tremblg what was done in
her, came and fell down before him, and told him alh.

5:34 And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee wholeace, and be whole of thy plague.

5:35 While he yet spake, there came of the synagogue’s
house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead:  thou the
Master any further?  5:36 As soon as Jesus heard the word then, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only
beliAnd he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and
John r of James.

5:38 And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagseeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.

5:39 And wheome in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this
ado, and weep? the damselad, but sleepeth.

5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. But when he hadall out,
he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them tith him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.

5:41 And he took by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha
cumi; which is, being interpr, I say unto thee, arise.

5:42 And straightway the damsel arose, and r she was of the
age of twelve years. And they were astonished with a ishment.

5:43 And he charged them straitly that no man should know itanded that something should be given her to eat.

6:1 And he went out , and came into his own country; and
his disciples follow him.

6:2 An sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the
synagogue: and many he were astonished, saying, From whence
hath this man these things? and  is this which is given
unto him, that even such mighty works are wrou hands?  6:3
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother o
Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?
were offended at him.

6:4 But Jesus, said unto them, A prophet is notonour, but in
his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own h And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands
upok folk, and healed them.

6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbeli went round
about the villages, teaching.

6:7 And he called unto him , and began to send them forth by
two and two; and gave them power ovespirits; 6:8 And
commanded them that they should take nothing for thei, save a
staff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 d with sandals; and not put on two coats.

6:10 And he said unto them,lace soever ye enter into an
house, there abide till ye depart from th6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye departake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against
them.

Verilyo you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and
Gomorrha in the day of than for that city.

6:12 And they went out, and preached that men sht.

6:13 And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many thak, and healed them.

6:14 And king Herod heard of him; (for his name wroad:)
and he said, That John the Baptist was risen from the dead, and mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.

6:15 Others said, Thatas. And others said, That it is a
prophet, or as one of the prophets.
hen Herod heard thereof, he said, It is John, whom I
beheaded: he is rhe dead.

6:17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon Johd him in prison for Herodias’ sake, his brother Philip’s wife: forried her.

6:18 For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thehy brother’s wife.

6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against hid have
killed him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowe was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he
heard him,ny things, and heard him gladly.

6:21 And when a convenient day was cHerod on his birthday
made a supper to his lords, high captains, and ces of
Galilee; 6:22 And when the daughter of the said Herodias came ined, and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king said
unto t Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it
thee.

6:23 And he her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will
give it thee, unto the hkingdom.

6:24 And she went forth, and said unto her mother, What shalnd she said, The head of John the Baptist.

6:25 And she came in straihaste unto the king, and asked,
saying, I will that thou give me by ancharger the head of
John the Baptist.

6:26 And the king was exceedingt for his oath’s sake, and
for their sakes which sat with him, he woher.

6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded be brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28
And broud in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the
damsel gave it to h

6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his
c laid it in a tomb.

6:30 And the apostles gathered themselves togethes, and
told him all things, both what they had done, and what they had:31 And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert
plac a while: for there were many coming and going, and
they had no leisurs to eat.

6:32 And they departed into a desert place by ship privatelnd the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran
afoot thi all cities, and outwent them, and came together
unto him.

6:34 And Jhe came out, saw much people, and was moved with
compassion toward thethey were as sheep not having a
shepherd: and he began to teach them m.

6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto hi This is a desert place, and now the time is far passed: 6:36
Send theat they may go into the country round about, and
into the villages, anselves bread: for they have nothing to
eat.

6:37 He answered and said Give ye them to eat. And they say
unto him, Shall we go and buy two hnyworth of bread, and
give them to eat?  6:38 He saith unto them, How s have ye?
go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fis And he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the
gree
6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.

6:41 A had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, he
looked up to heaven,ed, and brake the loaves, and gave them
to his disciples to set beforethe two fishes divided he
among them all.

6:42 And they did all eat, illed.

6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, anishes.

6:44 And they that did eat of the loaves were about five thous:45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the
ship, to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he sent
away the peoplnd when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to
pray.

6en even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea, and
he alone oe land.

6:48 And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was cont
them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them,
wa the sea, and would have passed by them.

6:49 But when they saw him w the sea, they supposed it had
been a spirit, and cried out: 6:50 For w him, and were
troubled. And immediately he talked with them, and saiem, Be
of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid.

6:51 And he went up unt the ship; and the wind ceased: and
they were sore amazed in themselveeasure, and wondered.

6:52 For they considered not the miracle of theor their
heart was hardened.

6:53 And when they had passed over, they the land of
Gennesaret, and drew to the shore.

6:54 And when they wet of the ship, straightway they knew
him, 6:55 And ran through that whround about, and began to
carry about in beds those that were sick, whheard he was.

6:56 And whithersoever he entered, into villages, or ciuntry, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that they
mif it were but the border of his garment: and as many as
touched him wole.

7:1 Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of th which came from Jerusalem.

7:2 And when they saw some of his disciplead with defiled,
that is to say, with unwashen, hands, they found fau7:3 For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands
 not, holding the tradition of the elders.

7:4 And when they come froet, except they wash, they eat
not.

And many other things there be, wthey have received to hold, as
the washing of cups, and pots, brasen vd of tables.

7:5 Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk nciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with
unds?  7:6 He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaias
prophesied ocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth
me with their lips, burt is far from me.

7:7 Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching fs the
commandments of men.

7:8 For laying aside the commandment of Goon of
men, as the washing of pots and cups: and many other such like t.

7:9 And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of Ge may keep your own tradition.

7:10 For Moses said, Honour thy fatherother; and, Whoso
curseth father or mother, let him die the death: 7:1ay, If a
man shall say to his father or mother, It is Corban, that is 
gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; he shall be free ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his
mother; 7:13 word of God of none effect through your
tradition, which ye have delivmany such like things do ye.

7:14 And when he had called all the peopm, he said unto
them, Hearken unto me every one of you, and understande is
nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile himthings which come out of him, those are they that defile the man.

7:1an have ears to hear, let him hear.

7:17 And when he was entered intoe from the people, his
disciples asked him concerning the parable.

7:saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Do
ye not percehatsoever thing from without entereth into the
man, it cannot defile hcause it entereth not into his
heart, but into the belly, and goeth ou draught, purging all
meats?  7:20 And he said, That which cometh out , that
defileth the man.

7:21 For from within, out of the heart of meevil thoughts,
adulteries, fornications, murders, 7:22 Thefts, covetoukedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride,
foolis3 All these evil things come from within, and defile
the man.

7:24 Annce he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre and
Sidon, and entered, and would have no man know it: but
he could not be hid.

7:25 For a man, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit,
heard of him, and camat his feet: 7:26 The woman was a
Greek, a Syrophenician by nation; anught him that he would
cast forth the devil out of her daughter.

7:27 said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it
is not meet t children’s bread, and to cast it unto the
dogs.

7:28 And she answed unto him, Yes, Lord: yet the dogs under
the table eat of the childrebs.

7:29 And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the devil ut of thy daughter.

7:30 And when she was come to her house, she founl gone out,
and her daughter laid upon the bed.

7:31 And again, deparhe coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came
unto the sea of Galilee, through of the coasts of Decapolis.

7:32 And they bring unto him one that wasd had an impediment
in his speech; and they beseech him to put his han.

7:33 And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers
ars, and he spit, and touched his tongue; 7:34 And looking
up to heaved, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be
opened.

7:35 And straigars were opened, and the string of his
tongue was loosed, and he spake6 And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he
ch, so much the more a great deal they published it; 7:37
And were beyonsure astonished, saying, He hath done all things
well: he maketh both o hear, and the dumb to speak.

8:1 In those days the multitude being  and having nothing
to eat, Jesus called his disciples unto him, and sthem, 8:2
I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now be
three days, and have nothing to eat: 8:3 And if I send them away
fastr own houses, they will faint by the way: for divers of
them came from And his disciples answered him, From whence can a man satisfy
these mad here in the wilderness?  8:5 And he asked them,
How many loaves havthey said, Seven.

8:6 And he commanded the people to sit down on the  he took
the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to histo set before them; and they did set them before the people.

8:7 And a few small fishes: and he blessed, and commanded to
set them also bef8:8 So they did eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken
mas left seven baskets.

8:9 And they that had eaten were about four thd he sent them
away.

8:10 And straightway he entered into a ship withes, and
came into the parts of Dalmanutha.

8:11 And the Pharisees camgan to question with him,
seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting ighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this
generation seek a? verily I say unto you, There shall no
sign be given unto this genera And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed to
the ot8:14 Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had they
i with them more than one loaf.

8:15 And he charged them, saying, Takeware of the leaven of
the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.

8:16reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have
no bread.

8: Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye,
because ye have no eive ye not yet, neither understand?
have ye your heart yet hardened? g eyes, see ye not? and
having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remembWhen I brake
the five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets fulnts took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve.

8:20 And when the seven amhousand, how many baskets full of
fragments took ye up? And they said,:21 And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand?  8:22
eth to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, and
besought hiim.

8:23 And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of thd when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he
asked haw ought.

8:24 And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walkinfter that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him
look up: restored, and saw every man clearly.

8:26 And he sent him away to hisying, Neither go into the
town, nor tell it to any in the town.

8:27 went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea
Philippi: and he asked his disciples, saying unto them,
Whom do men say that I am?  hey answered, John the Baptist;
but some say, Elias; and others, One ohets.

8:29 And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ.

8:30 And he charged them thould tell no man of him.

8:31 And he began to teach them, that the Smust suffer many
things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chi and
scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.

8:32 Anthat saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to
rebuke him.

8:33e had turned about and looked on his disciples, he
rebuked Peter, sayiee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest
not the things that be of God,gs that be of men.

8:34 And when he had called the people unto him wiiples
also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him d, and take up his cross, and follow me.

8:35 For whosoever will save hall lose it; but whosoever
shall lose his life for my sake and the gohe same shall save
it.

8:36 For what shall it profit a man, if he shae whole world,
and lose his own soul?  8:37 Or what shall a man give ifor
his soul?  8:38 Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of n this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the
Son of hamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with
the holy angels.he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That there be some
of them t death, till they
have seen the kingdom of God come with power.

9:2 Ath him Peter, and James, and
John, and leadeth them up into an high mort by themselves:
and he was transfigured before them.

9:3 And his rame shining, exceeding white as snow; so as no
fuller on earth can whit:4 And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were
talkins.

9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for ue: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for
Moses,or Elias.

9:6 For he wist not what to say; for they were sore afraid.there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a voice came out
of the ing, This is my beloved Son: hear him.

9:8 And suddenly, when they haround about, they saw no man
any more, save Jesus only with themselves
9:9 And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that theell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were
risen fdead.

9:10 And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning onether what the rising from the dead should mean.

9:11 And they asked h, Why say the scribes that Elias must
first come?  9:12 And he answereerily cometh
first, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of
man, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought.

9:13 Buto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have done
unto him whatsoevisted, as it is written of him.

9:14 And when he came to his disciplea great multitude about
them, and the scribes questioning with them.

traightway all the people, when they beheld him, were
greatly amazed, g to him saluted him.

9:16 And he asked the scribes, What question yem?  9:17 And
one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have br
thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; 9:18 And wheresoever he taketheareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and
pineth awspake to thy disciples that they should cast him
out; and they could nHe answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long
shall I ? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me.

9:20 And they broug him: and when he saw him, straightway
the spirit tare him; and he felround, and wallowed foaming.

9:21 And he asked his father, How long ince this came unto
him?  And he said, Of a child.

9:22 And ofttimes it him into the fire, and into the waters,
to destroy him: but if thou y thing, have compassion on us,
and help us.

9:23 Jesus said unto himanst believe, all things are
possible to him that believeth.

9:24 Andway the father of the child cried out, and said with
tears, Lord, I bep thou mine unbelief.

9:25 When Jesus saw that the people came runnin, he rebuked
the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirge
thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.

9:26 And the sp, and rent him sore, and came out of him: and
he was as one dead; insoany said, He is dead.

9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand, and liftednd he arose.

9:28 And when he was come into the house, his disciples privately, Why could not we cast him out?  9:29 And he said unto them, can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.

9:30 And they hence, and passed through Galilee; and he
would not that any man shoul

9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of manred into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after
that he  he shall rise the third day.

9:32 But they understood not that sayine afraid to ask him.

9:33 And he came to Capernaum: and being in the sked them,
What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way?  ey held their peace: for by the way they had disputed among
themselvesld be the greatest.

9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and  them, If
any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, a
of all.

9:36 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: e had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 9:37 Whosoever shall
r of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever
shall receivveth not me, but him that sent me.

9:38 And John answered him, sayinge saw one casting out
devils in thy name, and he followeth not us: and him,
because he followeth not us.

9:39 But Jesus said, Forbid him nore is no man which shall
do a miracle in my name, that can lightly speme.

9:40 For he that is not against us is on our part.

9:41 For whosl give you a cup of water to drink in my name,
because ye belong to Chly I say unto you, he shall not lose
his reward.

9:42 And whosoever s one of these little ones that believe
in me, it is better for him thastone were hanged about his
neck, and he were cast into the sea.

9:43y hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to
enter into lithan having two hands to go into hell, into
the fire that never shall d: 9:44 Where their worm dieth
not, and the fire is not quenched.

9:4hy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to
enter halt ithan having two feet to be cast into hell, into
the fire that never shnched: 9:46 Where their worm dieth
not, and the fire is not quenched.
if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee
to enterkingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to
be cast into hell8 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire
is not quenched.

9:49 For be salted with fire, and every sacrifice
shall be salted with salt.

9ut if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith
will ye season it? Ha yourselves, and have peace one with
another.

10:1 And he arose from d cometh into the coasts of Judaea by
the farther side of Jordan: and resort unto him again; and,
as he was wont, he taught them again.

10:Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a
man to put aw? tempting him.

10:3 And he answered and said unto them, What did Mosyou?
10:4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcementut her away.

10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardr
heart he wrote you this precept.

10:6 But from the beginning of theGod made them male and
female.

10:7 For this cause shall a man leave and mother, and
cleave to his wife; 10:8 And they twain shall be one fhen
they are no more twain, but one flesh.

10:9 What therefore God hatogether, let not man put asunder.

10:10 And in the house his disciplim again of the same
matter.

10:11 And he saith unto them, Whosoever way his wife, and
marry another, committeth adultery against her.

10:a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to
another, she comtery.

10:13 And they brought young children to him, that he should toand his disciples rebuked those that brought them.

10:14 But when Jeshe was much displeased, and said unto
them, Suffer the little childrennto me, and forbid them not:
for of such is the kingdom of God.

10:15say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom
of God as a litte shall not enter therein.

10:16 And he took them up in his arms, put upon them, and
blessed them.

10:17 And when he was gone forth into tere came one running,
and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master,  I do that I
may inherit eternal life?  10:18 And Jesus said unto him,t
thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God.

10:19 Thou e commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not
kill, Do not steal, Do lse witness, Defraud not, Honour thy
father and mother.  10:20 And he nd said unto him, Master,
all these have I observed from my youth.

10esus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing
thou lackesay, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the
poor, and thou shalt ha in heaven: and come, take up the
cross, and follow me.

10:22 And he  that saying, and went away grieved: for he had
great possessions.

10s looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How
hardly shall tave riches enter into the kingdom of God!
10:24 And the disciples wered at his words. But Jesus
answereth again, and saith unto them, Childrrd is it for
them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of GoIt
is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for ato enter into the kingdom of God.

10:26 And they were astonished out , saying among
themselves, Who then can be saved?  10:27 And Jesus loothem
saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God s are possible.

10:28 Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have lnd have
followed thee.

10:29 And Jesus answered and said, Verily I sa, There is no
man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel’s, he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses,
and brethreters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with
persecutions; and in to come eternal life.

10:31 But many that are first shall be last; an first.

10:32 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesfore them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they were
afrai took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things
should happ, 10:33 Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem;
and the Son of man shalered unto the chief priests, and unto
the scribes; and they shall conddeath, and shall deliver
him to the Gentiles: 10:34 And they shall moc shall scourge
him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and ty he
shall rise again.

10:35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee,him, saying,
Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoeveresire.

10:36 And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do fod unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy
right hand, and  on thy left hand, in thy glory.

10:38 But Jesus said unto them, Ye kat ye ask: can ye drink
of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized wiism that I am
baptized with?  10:39 And they said unto him, We can. Anaid
unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and wptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 10:40 But
to sitt hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but
it shall be given  whom it is prepared.

10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to ispleased with
James and John.

10:42 But Jesus called them to him, anto them, Ye know that
they which are accounted to rule over the Gentillordship
over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them.t so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great
among you,your minister: 10:44 And whosoever of you will be
the chiefest, shall  of all.

10:45 For even the Son of man came not to be ministered untoinister, and to give his life a ransom for many.

10:46 And they came : and as he went out of Jericho with his
disciples and a great number  blind Bartimaeus, the son of
Timaeus, sat by the highway side beggingnd when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry
out, asus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.

10:48 And many charged him uld hold his peace: but he cried
the more a great deal, Thou son of Daercy on me.

10:49 And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be callhey
call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; he
ee.

10:50 And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.
Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I
should do unto blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might
receive my sight.

10:52 said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee
whole.

And immedieceived his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.

11:1 And when they  Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany,
at the mount of Olives, he sen two of his disciples, 11:2
And saith unto them, Go your way into the er against you:
and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a 
whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him.

11:3 And if any manyou, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lord
hath need of him; and straigwill send him hither.

11:4 And they went their way, and found the colthe door
without in a place where two ways met; and they loose him.

1ertain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye,
loosing th1:6 And they said unto them even as Jesus had
commanded: and they let 11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments on
hiat upon him.

11:8 And many spread their garments in the way: and othen
branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.

11:9 And they before, and they that followed, cried, saying,
Hosanna; Blessed is he th in the name of the Lord: 11:10
Blessed be the kingdom of our fatherat cometh in the name of
the Lord: Hosanna in the highest.

11:11 And red into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and when
he had looked round  all things, and now the eventide was
come, he went out unto Bethany welve.

11:12 And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he w: 11:13 And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came,
if haplfind any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he
found nothing but l the time of figs was not yet.

11:14 And Jesus answered and said unton eat fruit of thee
hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.

1ey come to Jerusalem: and Jesus went into the temple, and
began to cas that sold and bought in the temple, and
overthrew the tables of the mrs, and the seats of them that
sold doves; 11:16 And would not suffer n should carry any
vessel through the temple.

11:17 And he taught, sathem, Is it not written, My house
shall be called of all nations the hayer? but ye have made
it a den of thieves.

11:18 And the scribes andests heard it, and sought how they
might destroy him: for they feared se all the people was
astonished at his doctrine.

11:19 And when evenhe went out of the city.

11:20 And in the morning, as they passed by,fig tree
dried up from the roots.

11:21 And Peter calling to remembrao him, Master, behold,
the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered aw And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God.

11:23 For vey unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this
mountain, Be thou remov thou cast into the sea; and shall
not doubt in his heart, but shall bt those things which he
saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoith.

11:24 Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, wh believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.

11:25 And whenpraying, forgive, if ye have ought against
any: that your Father also  heaven may forgive you your
trespasses.

11:26 But if ye do not forgir will your Father which is in
heaven forgive your trespasses.

11:27 come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the
temple, there cohe chief priests, and the scribes, and the
elders, 11:28 And say unto hat authority doest thou these
things? and who gave thee this authoritese things?  11:29
And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also u one
question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority Ithings.

11:30 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? ans1:31 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From
 will say, Why then did ye not believe him?  11:32 But if we
shall saythey feared the people: for all men counted John,
that he was a prophe11:33 And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesussaith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I
do these th1 And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain man
planted a and set an hedge about it, and digged a place for
the winefat, and bur, and let it out to husbandmen, and went
into a far country.

12:2 Aneason he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he
might receive from ndmen of the fruit of the vineyard.

12:3 And they caught him, and bead sent him away empty.

12:4 And again he sent unto them another serva him they cast
stones, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away 
handled.

12:5 And again he sent another; and him they killed, and mabeating some, and killing some.

12:6 Having yet therefore one son, hied, he sent him also
last unto them, saying, They will reverence my sot those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir;
come, let m, and the inheritance shall be ours.

12:8 And they took him, and kilnd cast him out of the
vineyard.

12:9 What shall therefore the lord oyard do? he will come
and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vito others.

12:10 And have ye not read this scripture; The stone whichs rejected is become the head of the corner: 12:11 This was the
Lordnd it is marvellous in our eyes?  12:12 And they sought
to lay hold onfeared the people: for they knew that he had
spoken the parable againsd they left him, and went their
way.

12:13 And they send unto him cere Pharisees and of the
Herodians, to catch him in his words.

12:14 Aney were come, they say unto him, Master, we know that
thou art true, adest not the
person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is iar, or not?  12:15 Shall we give, or shall we not
give? But he, knowinocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye
me? bring me a penny, that I may 2:16 And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image
cription? And they said unto him, Caesar’s.

12:17 And Jesus answerito them, Render to Caesar the things
that are Caesar’s, and to God tthat are God’s. And they
marvelled at him.

12:18 Then come unto himcees, which say there is no
resurrection; and they asked him, saying, r, Moses wrote
unto us, If a man’s brother die, and leave his wife b, and
leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and rad unto his brother.

12:20 Now there were seven brethren: and the firsfe, and
dying left no seed.

12:21 And the second took her, and died, ft he any seed: and
the third likewise.

12:22 And the seven had her, o seed: last of all the woman
died also.

12:23 In the resurrection thhen they shall rise, whose wife
shall she be of them? for the seven hafe.

12:24 And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err not the scriptures, neither the power of God?  12:25
For when they sh the dead, they neither marry, nor are
given in marriage; but are as thich are in heaven.

12:26 And as touching the dead, that they rise: h read in
the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, sayingGod of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?  12:27
He God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore
do greatly ernd one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning
together, ving that he had answered them well, asked him,
Which is the first com all?  12:29 And Jesus answered him,
The first of all the commandmentsO Israel; The Lord our God
is one Lord: 12:30 And thou shalt love the od with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, athy
strength: this is the first commandment.

12:31 And the second is ly this, Thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself. There is none othert greater than
these.

12:32 And the scribe said unto him, Well, Mastest said the
truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but hd
to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and
he soul, and with all the strength, and to love his
neighbour as himsee than all whole burnt offerings and
sacrifices.

12:34 And when Jesushe answered discreetly, he said unto
him, Thou art not far from the kiod. And no man after that
durst ask him any question.

12:35 And Jesusnd said, while he taught in the temple, How
say the scribes that Chrisn of David?  12:36 For David
himself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD  Lord, Sit thou on
my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footst7 David therefore himself calleth him Lord; and whence is he then
his e common people heard him gladly.

12:38 And he said unto them in his Beware of the scribes,
which love to go in long clothing, and love sal the
marketplaces, 12:39 And the chief seats in the synagogues, and tht rooms at feasts: 12:40 Which devour widows’ houses, and for
a pretong prayers: these shall receive greater damnation.

12:41 And Jesus sainst the treasury, and beheld how the
people cast money into the treaany that were rich cast in
much.

12:42 And there came a certain poor d she threw in two mites,
which make a farthing.

12:43 And he called s disciples, and saith unto them,
Verily I say unto you, That this pooh cast more in, than
all they which have cast into the treasury: 12:44ey did
cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in allhad, even all her living.

13:1 And as he went out of the temple, one ciples saith unto
him, Master, see what manner of stones and what builere!
13:2 And Jesus answering said unto him, Seest thou these great
buthere shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall
not be thro13:3 And as he sat upon the mount of Olives over against the temple,
Pames and John and Andrew asked him privately, 13:4 Tell us,
when shallgs be? and what shall be the sign when all these
things shall be fulfi5 And Jesus answering them began to
say, Take heed lest any man deceiv For many shall come in
my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceiv13:7 And when ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, be ye not
trosuch things must needs be; but the end shall not be yet.

13:8 For nat rise against nation, and kingdom against
kingdom: and there shall be s in divers places, and there
shall be famines and troubles: these arenings of sorrows.

13:9 But take heed to yourselves: for they shall de up to
councils; and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shalt before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against
them.

the gospel must first be published among all nations.

13:11 But when  lead you, and deliver you up, take no
thought beforehand what ye shalneither do ye premeditate: but
whatsoever shall be given you in that hpeak ye: for it is
not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost.

13:12 Now t shall betray the brother to death, and the
father the son; and childrse up against their parents, and
shall cause them to be put to death.
d ye shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake: but he that
shalle end, the same shall be saved.

13:14 But when ye shall see the abomilation, spoken of
by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, at
readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the
mo13:15 And let him that is on the housetop not go down into
the house, ter therein, to take any thing out of his house:
13:16 And let him tha field not turn back again for to take
up his garment.

13:17 But woe t are with child, and to them that give suck
in those days!  13:18 Andhat your flight be not in the
winter.

13:19 For in those days shall bn, such as was not from the
beginning of the creation which God creates time, neither
shall be.

13:20 And except that the Lord had shorteneays, no flesh
should be saved: but for the elect’s sake, whom he hathe
hath shortened the days.

13:21 And then if any man shall say to yoe is Christ; or,
lo, he is there; believe him not: 13:22 For false Chrlse
prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce,  possible, even the elect.

13:23 But take ye heed: behold, I have forll things.

13:24 But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun sarkened, and the moon shall not give her light, 13:25 And the stars
ofall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be
shaken.

13:26 Anl they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with
great power and gl7 And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his
elee four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the
uttermost paen.

13:28 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yetnd putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near: 13:29
So ye in l, when ye shall see these things come to pass,
know that it is nigh, edoors.

13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pall these things be done.

13:31 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but hall not pass
away.

13:32 But of that day and that hour knoweth no ma the angels
which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.

13:heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is.

13:34 For the is as a man taking a far journey, who left
his house, and gave authorservants, and to every man his
work, and commanded the porter to watchtch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house
cometh,or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the
morning: 13:36 Lest cenly he find you sleeping.

13:37 And what I say unto you I say unto a
14:1 After two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavened
the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might
take him by crut him to death.

14:2 But they said, Not on the feast day, lest therear of
the people.

14:3 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the he sat
at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointmenrd very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on his
head.

1re were some that had indignation within themselves, and
said, Why was of the ointment made?  14:5 For it might have
been sold for more thandred pence, and have been given to
the poor. And they murmured against And Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hath
wrought a on me.

14:7 For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye y do them good: but me ye have not always.

14:8 She hath done what shshe is come aforehand to anoint my
body to the burying.

14:9 Verily Iou, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached
throughout the whole worso that she hath done shall be
spoken of for a memorial of her.

14:10 Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief
priests, to betray hm.

14:11 And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him.

14:12 And the ff unleavened bread, when they killed the
passover, his disciples said Where wilt thou that we go and
prepare that thou mayest eat the passov And he sendeth forth
two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go yecity, and
there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follo14 And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the
house, saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat
the passover withles?  14:15 And he will shew you a large
upper room furnished and prepmake ready for us.

14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came into nd
as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.

14:17 14:18 And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you,
e.

14:19 And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by od he answered and said
unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippet goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to
that man by whom the Son oe had never been born.

14:22 And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.

14:23 And he tcup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to
them: and they all dr

14:24 And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament,
hed for many.

14:25 Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of thf the
vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
 when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of
Olives.

esus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of
me this nighs written, I will smite the shepherd, and the
sheep shall be scatteredt after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.

14:29 Butd unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet
will not I.

14:30 Andth unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day,
even in this nighthe cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me
thrice.

14:31 But he spake themently, If I should die with thee, I
will not deny thee in any wise. Llso said they all.

14:32 And they came to a place which was named Getnd he
saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray.

14:33 th with him Peter and James and John, and began to be
sore amazed, andy heavy; 14:34 And saith unto them, My soul
is exceeding sorrowful untarry ye here, and watch.

14:35 And he went forward a little, and fellound, and prayed
that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from h And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee;
take awp from me: nevertheless not what I will, but what
thou wilt.

14:37 Anh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter,
Simon, sleepest thst not thou watch one hour?  14:38 Watch
ye and pray, lest ye enter inon. The spirit truly is ready,
but the flesh is weak.

14:39 And againway, and prayed, and spake the same words.

14:40 And when he returnedthem asleep again, (for their
eyes were heavy,) neither wist they whathim.

14:41 And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep otake your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of
maned into the hands of sinners.

14:42 Rise up, let us go; lo, he that b is at hand.

14:43 And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas,
twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from
tiests and the scribes and the elders.

14:44 And he that betrayed him hem a token, saying,
Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take hi him away
safely.

14:45 And as soon as he was come, he goeth straight, and
saith, Master, master; and kissed him.

14:46 And they laid thein him, and took him.

14:47 And one of them that stood by drew a sword a servant
of the high priest, and cut off his ear.

14:48 And Jesus ad said unto them, Are ye come out, as
against a thief, with swords ands to take me?  14:49 I was
daily with you in the temple teaching, and  not: but the
scriptures must be fulfilled.

14:50 And they all forsoofled.

14:51 And there followed him a certain young man, having a linecast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him: 14:52
Athe linen cloth, and fled from them naked.

14:53 And they led Jesus a high priest: and with him were
assembled all the chief priests and thand the scribes.

14:54 And Peter followed him afar off, even into thethe
high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at t4:55 And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness
agaito put him to death; and found none.

14:56 For many bare false witneshim, but their witness
agreed not together.

14:57 And there arose cerare false witness against him,
saying, 14:58 We heard him say, I will s temple that is
made with hands, and within three days I will build aout hands.

14:59 But neither so did their witness agree together.

14nd the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus,
saying, Ans nothing? what is it which these witness against
thee?  14:61 But he hce, and answered nothing. Again the
high priest asked him, and said un thou the Christ, the Son
of the Blessed?  14:62 And Jesus said, I am:all see the Son
of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming uds of
heaven.

14:63 Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saithd we
any further witnesses?  14:64 Ye have heard the blasphemy: what td they all condemned him to be guilty of death.

14:65 And some began  him, and to cover his face, and to
buffet him, and to say unto him, Pd the servants did strike
him with the palms of their hands.

14:66 Anwas beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the
maids of the high p67 And when she saw Peter warming
himself, she looked upon him, and saou also wast with Jesus
of Nazareth.

14:68 But he denied, saying, I kither understand I what
thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; ak crew.

14:69 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them thatThis is one of them.

14:70 And he denied it again. And a little aftert stood by
said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou laean, and thy speech agreeth thereto.

14:71 But he began to curse ansaying, I know not this man
of whom ye speak.

14:72 And the second ti crew. And Peter called to mind the
word that Jesus said unto him, Befck crow twice, thou shalt
deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon,
15:1 And straightway in the morning the chief priests held a
consultahe elders and scribes and the whole council, and
bound Jesus, and carr, and delivered him to Pilate.

15:2 And Pilate asked him, Art thou thhe Jews? And he
answering said unto them, Thou sayest it.

15:3 And thests accused him of many things: but he answered
nothing.

15:4 And Pihim again, saying, Answerest thou nothing?
behold how many things theygainst thee.

15:5 But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marv6 Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever
the
15:7 And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them thatnsurrection with him, who had committed murder in the
insurrection.

1e multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he
had ever done

15:9 But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto y of the Jews?  15:10 For he knew that the chief priests had
delivered vy.

15:11 But the chief priests moved the people, that he should rathBarabbas unto them.

15:12 And Pilate answered and said again unto thel ye then
that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews? d
they cried out again, Crucify him.

15:14 Then Pilate said unto themthey cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him.

15:15 And so Pilatearabbas
unto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged him, to bd.

15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetoriey call together the whole band.

15:17 And they clothed him with purp platted a crown of thorns,
and put it about his head, 15:18 And began him, Hail, King
of the Jews!  15:19 And they smote him on the head wiand
did spit upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him.

15:20 Aey had mocked him, they took off the purple from him,
and put his own  him, and led him out to crucify him.

15:21 And they compel one Simonn, who passed by, coming out
of the country, the father of Alexander ato bear his cross.

15:22 And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, being
interpreted, The place of a skull.

15:23 And they gave him to dmingled with myrrh: but he
received it not.

15:24 And when they had cim, they parted his garments,
casting lots upon them, what every man se.

15:25 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.

15:26 Anrscription of his accusation was written over, THE
KING OF THE JEWS.

 with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his right
hand, and thehis left.

15:28 And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he d with the transgressors.

15:29 And they that passed by railed on himtheir heads, and
saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and builee
days, 15:30 Save thyself, and come down from the cross.

15:31 Likelso the chief priests mocking said among themselves
with the scribes, hers; himself he cannot save.

15:32 Let Christ the King of Israel desom the cross, that
we may see and believe. And they that were crucifie reviled
him.

15:33 And when the sixth hour was come, there was darknhe
whole land until the ninth hour.

15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus a loud voice, saying,
Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being i, My God, my
God, why hast thou forsaken me?  15:35 And some of them ty,
when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.

15:36 And one led a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a
reed, and gave him to dr, Let alone; let us see whether
Elias will come to take him down.

15:s cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.

15:38 And the veil le was rent in twain from the top to the
bottom.

15:39 And when the cwhich stood over against him, saw that
he so cried out, and gave up the said, Truly this man was
the Son of God.

15:40 There were also wome on afar off: among whom was Mary
Magdalene, and Mary the mother of Jas and of Joses, and
Salome; 15:41 (Who also, when he was in Galilee, fm, and
ministered unto him;) and many other women which came up with hrusalem.

15:42 And now when the even was come, because it was the prethat is, the day before the sabbath, 15:43 Joseph of Arimathaea, an
hounsellor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came,
and went in o Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus.

15:44 And Pilate marvelled iflready dead: and calling unto
him the centurion, he asked him whether  any while dead.

15:45 And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave 
Joseph.

15:46 And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrappthe linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock,
aa stone unto the door of the sepulchre.

15:47 And Mary Magdalene and other of Joses beheld where he
was laid.

16:1 And when the sabbath wary Magdalene, and Mary the
mother of James, and Salome, had bought swethat they might
come and anoint him.

16:2 And very early in the mornist day of the week, they
came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the  And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone
fromof the sepulchre?  16:4 And when they looked, they saw
that the stone  away: for it was very great.

16:5 And entering into the sepulchre, tyoung man sitting on
the right side, clothed in a long white garment;  were
affrighted.

16:6 And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye  of
Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold where they laid him.

16:7 But go your way, tell his disciples and Pe goeth
before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unt:8 And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they
trwere amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for
they were afr Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he
appearedary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven
devils.

16:10 And she wed them that had been with him, as they
mourned and wept.

16:11 And thhey had heard that he was alive, and had been
seen of her, believed noAfter that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they
walke into the country.

16:13 And they went and told it unto the residue: elieved
they them.

16:14 Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as theat, and
upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, becaelieved not them which had seen him after he was risen.

16:15 And he hem, Go ye into all the world, and preach the
gospel to every creaturee that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that
believeth be damned.

16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In all
they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 16:18 Theke up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall
not hurt  shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.

16:19 So then aord had spoken unto them, he was received up
into heaven, and sat on tand of God.

16:20 And they went forth, and preached every where, the with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.




Thepel According to Saint Luke


1:1 Forasmuch as many have taken in handrth in order a
declaration of those things which are most surely belieus,
1:2 Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning tnesses, and ministers of the word; 1:3 It seemed good to me
also, havrfect understanding of all things from the very
first, to write unto ter, most excellent Theophilus, 1:4
That thou mightest know the certaine things, wherein thou
hast been instructed.

1:5 THERE was in the day, the king of Judaea, a certain
priest named Zacharias, of the course d his wife was of the
daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth.
hey were both righteous before God, walking in all the
commandments anes of the Lord blameless.

1:7 And they had no child, because that Eli barren, and they
both were now well stricken in years.

1:8 And it ca, that while he executed the priest’s office
before God in the orderurse, 1:9 According to the custom of
the priest’s office, his lot wa incense when he went into the
temple of the Lord.

1:10 And the wholeof the people were praying without at the
time of incense.

1:11 And tred unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the
right side of the alnse.

1:12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell 

1:13 But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy praye; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt
call hi.

1:14 And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice ah.

1:15 For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall dri wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy
Ghost, evs mother’s womb.

1:16 And many of the children of Israel shall he t Lord
their God.

1:17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and poas, to
turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobede wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

1acharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for
I am an od my wife well stricken in years.

1:19 And the angel answering said um Gabriel, that stand
in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unt to shew
thee these glad tidings.

1:20 And, behold, thou shalt be dum able to speak, until the
day that these things shall be performed, bebelievest not
my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.

1:2people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he
tarried so long in .

1:22 And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they
pthat he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned
unto them, anspeechless.

1:23 And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of hiion were accomplished, he departed to his own house.

1:24 And after tis wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid
herself five months, saying, 1:25h the Lord dealt with me in
the days wherein he looked on me, to take roach among men.

1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sed unto a
city of Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27 To a virgin espoused tose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin’s name
was8 And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art
highly, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.

1:29 And when , she was troubled at his saying, and cast in
her mind what manner of this should be.

1:30 And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: forfound
favour with God.

1:31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy wing forth a
son, and shalt call his name JESUS.

1:32 He shall be greal be called the Son of the Highest:
and the Lord God shall give unto hne of his father David:
1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jaco; and of his
kingdom there shall be no end.

1:34 Then said Mary unto , How shall this be, seeing I know
not a man?  1:35 And the angel answaid unto her, The Holy
Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of thhall
overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be bo shall be called the Son of God.

1:36 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeath also conceived a son
in her old age: and this is the sixth month wo was called
barren.

1:37 For with God nothing shall be impossible.

 Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me
according t word. And the angel departed from her.

1:39 And Mary arose in those went into the hill country with
haste, into a city of Juda; 1:40 And eo the house of
Zacharias, and saluted Elisabeth.

1:41 And it came to  when Elisabeth heard the salutation of
Mary, the babe leaped in her wisabeth was filled with the
Holy Ghost: 1:42 And she spake out with a , and said,
Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of 
1:43 And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come44 For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded
in mine eare leaped in my womb for joy.

1:45 And blessed is she that believed: fhall be a
performance of those things which were told her from the Lornd Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, 1:47 And my spirit
hath r God my Saviour.

1:48 For he hath regarded the low estate of his handr,
behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.

1:4at is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is
his name.

1:50mercy is on them that fear him from generation to
generation.

1:51 Heed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud
in the imaginatir hearts.

1:52 He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exal of
low degree.

1:53 He hath filled the hungry with good things; and e hath
sent empty away.

1:54 He hath holpen his servant Israel, in re of his mercy;
1:55 As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to hisever.

1:56 And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned touse.

1:57 Now Elisabeth’s full time came that she should be delivehe brought forth a son.

1:58 And her neighbours and her cousins heardord had shewed
great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.

1:59e to pass, that on the eighth day they came to
circumcise the child; alled him Zacharias, after the name of
his father.

1:60 And his mothernd said, Not so; but he shall be called
John.

1:61 And they said untore is none of thy kindred that is
called by this name.

1:62 And they to his father, how he would have him called.

1:63 And he asked for a ble, and wrote, saying, His name is
John. And they marvelled all.

1:6outh was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and
he spake, and d.

1:65 And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all thewere noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea.

1:66 Anthat heard them laid them up in their hearts,
saying, What manner of cll this be! And the hand of the Lord
was with him.

1:67 And his fathes was filled with the Holy Ghost, and
prophesied, saying, 1:68 Blessedd God of Israel; for he
hath visited and redeemed his people, 1:69 Andd up an horn
of salvation for us in the house of his servant David; 1:pake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the
worl71 That we should be saved from our enemies, and from
the hand of all us; 1:72 To perform the mercy promised to
our fathers, and to rememberovenant; 1:73 The oath which he
sware to our father Abraham, 1:74 Thatgrant unto us, that we
being delivered out of the hand of our enemies e him without
fear, 1:75 In holiness and righteousness before him, allof
our life.

1:76 And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of theor
thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways; 1:77nowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their
sins, gh the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring
from on high hats, 1:79 To give light to them that sit in
darkness and in the shadow oo guide our feet into the way of
peace.

1:80 And the child grew, and ng in spirit, and was in the
deserts till the day of his shewing unto 2:1 And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree
frAugustus that all the world should be taxed.

2:2 (And this taxing wase when Cyrenius was governor of
Syria.)  2:3 And all went to be taxed,into his own city.

2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of tNazareth,
into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehse he was of the house and lineage of David:) 2:5 To be taxed
with Mard wife, being great with child.

2:6 And so it was, that, while they wthere, the days were
accomplished that she should be delivered.

2:7 Aught forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in
swaddling clothes, anm in a manger; because there was no room
for them in the inn.

2:8 Ande in the same country shepherds abiding in the field,
keeping watch ovock by night.

2:9 And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and of
the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid.

2:10 A said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you
good tidings of grhich shall be to all people.

2:11 For unto you is born this day in thavid a Saviour,
which is Christ the Lord.

2:12 And this shall be a si; Ye shall find the babe wrapped
in swaddling clothes, lying in a mang3 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
hog God, and saying, 2:14 Glory to God in the highest, and
on earth peacill toward men.

2:15 And it came to pass, as the angels were gone awa into
heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unm, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord
hath made  us.

2:16 And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and ting in a manger.

2:17 And when they had seen it, they made known abrong
which was told them concerning this child.

2:18 And all they that ndered at those things which were
told them by the shepherds.

2:19 But all these things, and pondered them in her heart.

2:20 And the sheprned, glorifying and praising God for all
the things that they had hean, as it was told unto them.

2:21 And when eight days were accomplishcircumcising of the
child, his name was called JESUS, which was so namngel
before he was conceived in the womb.

2:22 And when the days of hation according to the law of
Moses were accomplished, they brought hilem, to present him
to the Lord; 2:23 (As it is written in the law of very male
that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;) 2:2offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the
Loof turtledoves, or two young pigeons.

2:25 And, behold, there was a msalem, whose name was Simeon;
and the same man was just and devout, wahe consolation of
Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.

2:26 And iled unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he should
not see death, before h the Lord’s Christ.

2:27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple:the parents
brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the customw,
2:28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 2:ow lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy
word: 2:e eyes have seen thy salvation, 2:31 Which thou hast
prepared before tall people; 2:32 A light to lighten the
Gentiles, and the glory of thyael.

2:33 And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which wof him.

2:34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, is child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and
fwhich shall be spoken against; 2:35 (Yea, a sword shall
pierce throughthoughts of many hearts
may be revealed.

2:36 And there was one Anna,the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an
husbayears from her virginity; 2:37 And she was a widow of
about fourscore ars, which departed not from the temple,
but served God with fastings  night and day.

2:38 And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewhe
Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in
Je:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law of
they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.

2:40 And the chid waxed strong in spirit, filled with
wisdom: and the grace of God was

2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of th

2:42 And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem aftom of the feast.

2:43 And when they had fulfilled the days, as they rhe child
Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother  it.

2:44 But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went aurney; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.

2:4 they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem,
seeking him.t came to pass, that after three days they found him in the
temple, sin the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and
asking them questiond all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and
answersnd when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto
him, ast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I
have sought theeg.

2:49 And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye nmust be about my Father’s business?  2:50 And they understood
not thich he spake unto them.

2:51 And he went down with them, and came to nd was subject
unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God
a Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius
Pigovernor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee,
and his brothetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of
Trachonitis, and Lysanias the f Abilene, 3:2 Annas and
Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of o John the
son of Zacharias in the wilderness.

3:3 And he came into atry about Jordan, preaching the
baptism of repentance for the remissio3:4 As it is written
in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, s voice of
one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lordpaths straight.

3:5 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain ll be
brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the roull be made smooth; 3:6 And all flesh shall see the salvation
of God.

n said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of
him, O gef vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the
wrath to come?  3:8 Briherefore fruits worthy of repentance,
and begin not to say within yourave Abraham to our father:
for I say unto you, That God is able of theto raise up
children unto Abraham.

3:9 And now also the axe is laid ut of the trees: every
tree therefore which bringeth not forth good frudown, and
cast into the fire.

3:10 And the people asked him, saying, we do then?  3:11 He
answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two c him impart
to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do l
3:12 Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him,
Mastall we do?  3:13 And he said unto them, Exact no more
than that which d you.

3:14 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And whe do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse
anyand be content with your wages.

3:15 And as the people were in expectall men mused in their
hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or John
answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; ghtier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy
to une shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:
3:17 Whose fan hand, and he will throughly purge his floor,
and will gather the wheatgarner; but the chaff he will burn
with fire unquenchable.

3:18 And mhings in his exhortation preached he unto the
people.

3:19 But Herod ch, being reproved by him for Herodias his
brother Philip’s wife, anthe evils which Herod had done,
3:20 Added yet this above all, that heohn in prison.

3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, it came to
Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, 3:22
Ay Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him,
and a voice eaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in
thee I am well pleased.Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being
(as was supson of Joseph, which was the son of Heli, 3:24
Which was the son of Mach was the son of Levi, which was the
son of Melchi, which was the sonwhich was the son of
Joseph, 3:25 Which was the son of Mattathias, whion of
Amos, which was the son of Naum, which was the son of Esli, whicon of Nagge, 3:26 Which was the son of Maath, which was the son
of Matich was the son of Semei, which was the son of
Joseph, which was the sa, 3:27 Which was the son of Joanna,
which was the son of Rhesa, whichson of Zorobabel, which was
the son of Salathiel, which was the son of Which was the
son of Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the
which was the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er, 3:29 Which was son of Jose, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son of
Jorims the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, 3:30
Which was the son, which was the son of Juda, which was the
son of Joseph, which was tJonan, which was the son of
Eliakim, 3:31 Which was the son of Melea, the son of Menan,
which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of ch was
the son of David, 3:32 Which was the son of Jesse, which was thed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of Salmon, which
was Naasson, 3:33 Which was the son of Aminadab, which was
the son of Arams the son of Esrom, which was the son of
Phares, which was the son of  Which was the son of Jacob,
which was the son of Isaac, which was theraham, which was
the son of Thara, which was the son of Nachor, 3:35 We son
of Saruch, which was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalwas the son of Heber, which was the son of Sala, 3:36 Which was
the soinan, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son of
Sem, which w of Noe, which was the son of Lamech, 3:37 Which
was the son of Mathus was the son of Enoch, which was the
son of Jared, which was the son o which was the son of
Cainan, 3:38 Which was the son of Enos, which waof Seth,
which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.

4:1 Andng full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and
was led by the Spihe wilderness, 4:2 Being forty days
tempted of the devil. And in thoseid eat nothing: and when
they were ended, he afterward hungered.

4:3 evil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command
this stone thate bread.

4:4 And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man live by bread alone, but by every word of God.

4:5 And the devil, tak into an high mountain, shewed unto
him all the kingdoms of the world  of time.

4:6 And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give
the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever Ie it.

4:7 If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.

4:8answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan:
for it is writthalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only
shalt thou serve.

4:9 Andght him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the
temple, and sai, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself
down from hence: 4:10 For it, He shall give his angels
charge over thee, to keep thee: 4:11 And inds they shall
bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot agains

4:12 And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not
trd thy God.

4:13 And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he om
him for a season.

4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirlilee: and
there went out a fame of him through all the region round a And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.

4:16 And  Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as
his custom was, he we synagogue on the sabbath day, and
stood up for to read.

4:17 And thevered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias.
And when he had opened e found the place where it was
written, 4:18 The Spirit of the Lord isecause he hath
anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sheal
the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and
recsight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are
bruised, 4:19 To pacceptable year of the Lord.

4:20 And he closed the book, and he gaven to the minister, and
sat down. And the eyes of all them that were ingogue were
fastened on him.

4:21 And he began to say unto them, This s scripture
fulfilled in your ears.

4:22 And all bare him witness, an at the gracious words
which proceeded out of his mouth. And they saidthis Joseph’s
son?  4:23 And he said unto them, Ye will surely say uproverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in
Cap also here in thy country.

4:24 And he said, Verily I say unto you, Ns accepted in his
own country.

4:25 But I tell you of a truth, many w in Israel in the days
of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three yea months, when
great famine was throughout all the land; 4:26 But unto m
was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman thawidow.

4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.

4:28 And althe synagogue, when they heard these things, were
filled with wrath, 4se up, and thrust him out of the city,
and led him unto the brow of threon their city was built,
that they might cast him down headlong.

4:passing through the midst of them went his way, 4:31 And
came down to a city of Galilee, and taught them on the
sabbath days.

4:32 And theytonished at his doctrine: for his word was with
power.

4:33 And in the there was a man, which had a spirit of an
unclean devil, and cried ooud voice, 4:34 Saying, Let us
alone; what have we to do with thee, thf Nazareth? art thou
come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; theof God.

4:35 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come .

And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him,im not.

4:36 And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, sa a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth the
uncleaand they come out.

4:37 And the fame of him went out into every placeuntry
round about.

4:38 And he arose out of the synagogue, and enteren’s
house.

And Simon’s wife’s mother was taken with a great fevey
besought him for her.

4:39 And he stood over her, and rebuked the  it left her:
and immediately she arose and ministered unto them.

4:4the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with
divers diseases b unto him; and he laid his hands on every
one of them, and healed them devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou
art Christf God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to
speak: for they knew as Christ.

4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desend the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he
spart from them.

4:43 And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom other
cities also: for therefore am I sent.

4:44 And he preached in es of Galilee.

5:1 And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed uhear
the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret, 5:2 And saw tanding by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them,
and wereeir nets.

5:3 And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simonyed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat
doght the people out of the ship.

5:4 Now when he had left speaking, heSimon, Launch out into
the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.imon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the
night, ann nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let
down the net.

5:6 And had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of
fishes: and their ne:7 And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other
shipy should come and help them. And they came, and filled
both the ships,hey began to sink.

5:8 When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus, saying,
Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.

5:9 For he whed, and all that were with him, at the draught
of the fishes which thn: 5:10 And so was also James, and
John, the sons of Zebedee, which wes with Simon. And Jesus
said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thoch men.

5:11 And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsnd followed him.

5:12 And it came to pass, when he was in a certain c a man
full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besoughing, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

5:13 And he put fod, and touched him, saying, I will: be
thou clean. And immediately theeparted from him.

5:14 And he charged him to tell no man: but go, andf to
the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commaa testimony unto them.

5:15 But so much the more went there a fame ab: and great
multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him firmities.

5:16 And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and praynd it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that
there wes and doctors of the law sitting by, which were
come out of every town, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the
power of the Lord was present to 5:18 And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a
pa: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before
him.

5en they could not find by what way they might bring him in
because of tude, they went upon the housetop, and let him
down through the tilingcouch into the midst before Jesus.

5:20 And when he saw their faith, o him, Man, thy sins are
forgiven thee.

5:21 And the scribes and the egan to reason, saying, Who is
this which speaketh blasphemies? Who ca sins, but God alone?
5:22 But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, hesaid unto
them, What reason ye in your hearts?  5:23 Whether is easierhy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?  5:24 But that
w that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins,
(he said ick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take
up thy couch, and nto thine house.

5:25 And immediately he rose up before them, and toowhereon
he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.

5:26 Ae all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled
with fear, sayin seen strange things to day.

5:27 And after these things he went forta publican, named
Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said , Follow
me.

5:28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him.

5:29 Ae him a great feast in his own house: and there was a
great company ofand of others that sat down with them.

5:30 But their scribes and Phamured against his disciples,
saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publinners?  5:31 And
Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole hysician; but they that are sick.

5:32 I came not to call the righteonners to repentance.

5:33 And they said unto him, Why do the discipleast often,
and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisene eat and drink?  5:34 And he said unto them, Can ye make the
childreidechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
5:35 But the days when the bridegroom shall be taken away
from them, and then shall theyose days.

5:36 And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth 
a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a
re piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the
old.

5:37 utteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine
will burst the botbe spilled, and the bottles shall perish.

5:38 But new wine must be pbottles; and both are
preserved.

5:39 No man also having drunk old wiaightway desireth new: for
he saith, The old is better.

6:1 And it caon the second sabbath after the first, that he
went through the corn fhis disciples plucked the ears of
corn, and did eat, rubbing them in t.

6:2 And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that whiawful to do on the sabbath days?  6:3 And Jesus answering them
said, Head so much as this, what David did, when himself
was an hungred, and  were with him; 6:4 How he went into the
house of God, and did take anshewbread, and gave also to
them that were with him; which it is not lat but for the
priests alone?  6:5 And he said unto them, That the Son.

6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered ine was a man whose right hand was
withered.

6:7 And the scribes and Phtched him, whether he would heal
on the sabbath day; that they might fusation against him.

6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to the ad the
withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arod forth.

6:9 Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is
on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to
de6:10 And looking round about upon them all, he said unto
the man, Stre thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was
restored whole as the other they were filled with madness; and communed one with another
what the to Jesus.

6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out itain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.

6:13 And when, he called unto him his disciples: and of
them he chose twelve, whom ed apostles; 6:14 Simon, (whom
he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brs and John, Philip
and Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James thephaeus,
and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And Judas the brother of James,as Iscariot, which also was the traitor.

6:17 And he came down with ttood in the plain, and the
company of his disciples, and a great multiople out of all
Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre awhich
came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18 And tre vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.

6:19 And the whoe sought to touch him: for there went
virtue out of him, and healed th20 And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be
yeyours is the kingdom of God.

6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger now: fore filled. Blessed
are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.

6:22 Blesare ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall
separate you fromany, and shall reproach you, and cast out
your name as evil, for the Ss sake.

6:23 Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold,d is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers
unto th

6:24 But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your
conso25 Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you
that  for ye shall mourn and weep.

6:26 Woe unto you, when all men shall sf you! for so did
their fathers to the false prophets.

6:27 But I saywhich hear, Love your enemies, do good to them
which hate you, 6:28 Blat curse you, and pray for them
which despitefully use you.

6:29 And at smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the
other; and him that tathy cloak forbid not to take thy coat
also.

6:30 Give to every man thf thee; and of him that taketh
away thy goods ask them not again.

6:3 would that men should do to you, do ye also to them
likewise.

6:32 Fve them which love you, what thank have ye? for
sinners also love those them.

6:33 And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thae?  for sinners also do even the same.

6:34 And if ye lend to them ofope to receive, what thank
have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, eive as much again.

6:35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lng for
nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be en of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the
evil.ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.

6:37 Judge nohall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall
not be condemned: forgivshall be forgiven: 6:38 Give, and it
shall be given unto you; good meased down, and shaken
together, and running over, shall men give into yFor with
the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to 

6:39 And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind?y not both fall into the ditch?  6:40 The disciple is not
above his ma every one that is perfect shall be as his
master.

6:41 And why beholhe mote that is in thy brother’s eye, but
perceivest not the beam thhine own eye?  6:42 Either how
canst thou say to thy brother, Brother,ll out the mote that
is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not hat is in
thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out on eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is
inher’s eye.

6:43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; nth a
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.

6:44 For every tree is knowown fruit. For of thorns men do
not gather figs, nor of a bramble bushey grapes.

6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brinthat which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his
heth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the
heart his mouth.

6:46 And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which 47 Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth
them, I wou to whom he is like: 6:48 He is like a man which
built an house, andep, and laid the foundation on a rock:
and when the flood arose, the s vehemently upon that house,
and could not shake it: for it was foundeock.

6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that withdation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did
beatly, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house
was great.

7n he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the
people, he enteraum.

7:2 And a certain centurion’s servant, who was dear unto him, sick, and ready to die.

7:3 And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto ders of the
Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servaAnd when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying,
Thatrthy for whom he should do this: 7:5 For he loveth our
nation, and he  us a synagogue.

7:6 Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now nm the
house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord,t thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter
under my roofefore neither thought I myself worthy to come
unto thee: but say in a my servant shall be healed.

7:8 For I also am a man set under authori under me soldiers,
and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to anothand he
cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

7:9 When  these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him
about, and said untle that followed him, I say unto you, I
have not found so great faith,n Israel.

7:10 And they that were sent, returning to the house, foundnt whole that had been sick.

7:11 And it came to pass the day after, nt into a city
called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, aople.

7:12 Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, the dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a
widowpeople of the city was with her.

7:13 And when the Lord saw her, he hpassion on her, and said
unto her, Weep not.

7:14 And he came and touier: and they that bare him stood
still.

And he said, Young man, I sa, Arise.

7:15 And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And hehim to his mother.

7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorifaying,
That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath v people.

7:17 And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaeaughout all the region round about.

7:18 And the disciples of John sheall these things.

7:19 And John calling unto him two of his disciplesto
Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath
sent us untoing, Art thou he that should come? or look we
for another?  7:21 And ie hour he cured many of their
infirmities and plagues, and of evil spiunto many that were
blind he gave sight.

7:22 Then Jesus answering sam, Go your way, and tell John
what things ye have seen and heard; how ind see, the lame
walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the deed, to
the poor the gospel is preached.

7:23 And blessed is he, whosonot be offended in me.

7:24 And when the messengers of John were depabegan to speak
unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into rness
for to see?  A reed shaken with the wind?  7:25 But what went yeo see? A man clothed in soft raiment?  Behold, they which are
gorgeouslled, and live delicately, are in kings’ courts.

7:26 But what wentr to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you,
and much more than a prophethis is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger
before tich shall prepare thy way before thee.

7:28 For I say unto you, Among are born of women there is
not a greater prophet than John the Baptishat is least in
the kingdom of God is greater than he.

7:29 And all tthat heard him, and the publicans, justified
God, being baptized with  of John.

7:30 But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of t
themselves, being not baptized of him.

7:31 And the Lord said, Whershall I liken the men of this
generation? and to what are they like?  are like unto
children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to nd
saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have
mouu, and ye have not wept.

7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eatinr drinking wine;
and ye say, He hath a devil.

7:34 The Son of man is ing and drinking; and ye say, Behold a
gluttonous man, and a winebibbed of publicans and sinners!
7:35 But wisdom is justified of all her ch36 And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him.
Aninto the Pharisee’s house, and sat down to meat.

7:37 And, behold, the city, which was a sinner, when she
knew that Jesus sat at meat in ee’s house, brought an
alabaster box of ointment, 7:38 And stood at t behind him
weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did with
the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them withnt.

7:39 Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake
elf, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have
known who and r of woman this is that toucheth him: for she
is a sinner.

7:40 And Jring said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say
unto thee. And he sa, say on.

7:41 There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: th
five hundred pence, and the other fifty.

7:42 And when they had noth he frankly forgave them both.
Tell me therefore, which of them will lost?  7:43 Simon
answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forg
And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.

7:44 And he turned tn, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this
woman? I entered into thine hou gavest me no water for my
feet: but she hath washed my feet with teaed them with the
hairs of her head.

7:45 Thou gavest me no kiss: but  since the time I came in
hath not ceased to kiss my feet.

7:46 My he thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath
anointed my feet with oint7 Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are
forgiven; fed much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same
loveth little.

7:48id unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.

7:49 And they that sat at meat wian to say within
themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?  7: said to
the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.

8:1 And i pass afterward, that he went throughout every city
and village, preachewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of
God: and the twelve were wit And certain women, which had
been healed of evil spirits and infirmitcalled Magdalene,
out of whom went seven devils, 8:3 And Joanna the wia
Herod’s steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered untheir substance.

8:4 And when much people were gathered together, andto him
out of every city, he spake by a parable: 8:5 A sower went out seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was
trodden dd the fowls of the air devoured it.

8:6 And some fell upon a rock; anas it was sprung up, it
withered away, because it lacked moisture.

8: fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and
choked it.

er fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an
hundredfold. e had said these things, he cried, He that hath
ears to hear, let him And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?
8:10 , Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the
kingdom of God: bu in parables; that seeing they might not
see, and hearing they might nand.

8:11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.

8:12the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil,
and taketh awaout of their hearts, lest they should believe
and be saved.

8:13 Theyk are they, which, when they hear, receive the
word with joy; and thesoot, which for a while believe, and
in time of temptation fall away.

hat which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have
heard, go are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of
this life, and bringo perfection.

8:15 But that on the good ground are they, which in an  good
heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit witence.

8:16 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a  putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that they
whn may see the light.

8:17 For nothing is secret, that shall not be mat; neither
any thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad.

8:ed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall
be given; aer hath not, from him shall be taken even that
which he seemeth to haven came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come
at him ess.

8:20 And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and tn stand without, desiring to see thee.

8:21 And he answered and said  My mother and my brethren are
these which hear the word of God, and d2 Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship
with : and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the
other side of the lakAnd they launched forth.

8:23 But as they sailed he fell asleep: and  down a storm of
wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, an
jeopardy.

8:24 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, we
perish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the
wthey ceased, and there was a calm.

8:25 And he said unto them, Where r faith? And they being afraid
wondered, saying one to another, What mman is this! for he
commandeth even the winds and water, and they obey And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over
again.

8:27 And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither
abode in, but in the tombs.

8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell doim, and
with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thod most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.

8:29 (For he had commanclean spirit to come out of the man.
For oftentimes it had caught him:s kept bound with chains
and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and wf the devil
into the wilderness.)  8:30 And Jesus asked him, saying, W
name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him. they besought him that he would not command them to go out
into the dAnd there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the
mountain: andught him that he would suffer them to enter
into them. And he suffered3 Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine:
andran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were
choked.

8:34they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went
and told it  and in the country.

8:35 Then they went out to see what was done; anJesus, and
found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sittineet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.

8lso which saw it told them by what means he that was
possessed of the healed.

8:37 Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenest besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great
feaent up into the ship, and returned back again.

8:38 Now the man out oe devils were departed besought him
that he might be with him: but Jesm away, saying, 8:39
Return to thine own house, and shew how great thih done
unto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the whow great things Jesus had done unto him.

8:40 And it came to pass, thesus was returned, the people
gladly received him: for they were all w him.

8:41 And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a r synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus’ feet, and besought him that
he into his house: 8:42 For he had one only daughter, about
twelve yearand she lay a dying. But as he went the people
thronged him.

8:43 Andaving an issue of blood twelve years, which had
spent all her living uicians, neither could be healed of any,
8:44 Came behind him, and toucrder of his garment: and
immediately her issue of blood stanched.

8:4s said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they
that were withe and press
thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?  8:46 And Jesus sait virtue is gone out of me.

8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling,
and falling down before him, she declaredbefore all the
people for what cause she had touched him, and how she immediately.

8:48 And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort:
hath made thee whole; go in peace.

8:49 While he yet spake, there corom the ruler of the
synagogue’s house, saying to him, Thy daughter rouble not
the Master.

8:50 But when Jesus heard it, he answered him,ar not:
believe only, and she shall be made whole.

8:51 And when he cthe house, he suffered no man to go in,
save Peter, and James, and Johhe father and the mother of the
maiden.

8:52 And all wept, and bewailt he said, Weep not; she is not
dead, but sleepeth.

8:53 And they lauo scorn, knowing that she was dead.

8:54 And he put them all out, andby the hand, and called,
saying, Maid, arise.

8:55 And her spirit camn, and she arose straightway: and he
commanded to give her meat.

8:56ere astonished: but he charged them that they
should tell no man what as done.

9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave t
and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.

9:2 And he sentreach the kingdom of God, and to heal the
sick.

9:3 And he said unto  nothing for your journey, neither
staves, nor scrip, neither bread, nney; neither have two
coats apiece.

9:4 And whatsoever house ye enterd thence
depart.

9:5 And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go oity,
shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against thd they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the
gospel, andry where.

9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by hias perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen
fr 9:8 And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of
others, that one of hets was risen again.

9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but w of whom I
hear such things? And he desired to see him.

9:10 And the en they were returned, told him all that they
had done. And he took tht aside privately into a desert
place belonging to the city called Bet:11 And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received
take unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that
had need of :12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and
sai, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the
towns and country, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are
here in a desert place.

9:1id unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We
have no more but  and two fishes; except we should go and
buy meat for all this people. they were about five thousand men. And he said to his
disciples, Makeown by fifties in a company.

9:15 And they did so, and made them all 9:16 Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up
te blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to
set before the.

9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up  that remained to them twelve baskets.

9:18 And it came to pass, as hpraying, his disciples were
with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom ple that I am?
9:19 They answering said, John the Baptist; but some saand
others say, that one of the old prophets is risen again.

9:20 He hem, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering
said, The Christ of GoAnd he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man
that taying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and
be rejected of the chief priests and scribes, and be slain,
and be raised the third day.
 said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him
deny himselfup his cross daily, and follow me.

9:24 For whosoever will save his lose it: but whosoever
will lose his life for my sake, the same shall s5 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and
lose hbe cast away?  9:26 For whosoever shall be ashamed of
me and of my worhall the Son of man be ashamed, when he
shall come in his own glory, aher’s, and of the holy
angels.

9:27 But I tell you of a truth, thertanding here, which
shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdo9:28 And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he
tnd John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.

9:29 And as h, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and
his raiment was whitring.

9:30 And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were Mos: 9:31 Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he
shouldsh at Jerusalem.

9:32 But Peter and they that were with him were heav: and
when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that sim.

9:33 And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said uMaster, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three
tabernaclethee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not
knowing what he said.
he thus spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them:
and they fea entered into the cloud.

9:35 And there came a voice out of the cloudis is my
beloved Son: hear him.

9:36 And when the voice was past, Jesd alone. And they kept
it close, and told no man in those days any of s which they
had seen.

9:37 And it came to pass, that on the next daythey were come
down from the hill, much people met him.

9:38 And, behof the company cried out, saying, Master, I
beseech thee, look upon mye is mine only child.

9:39 And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddeout; and it
teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardlyrom him.

9:40 And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they 9:41 And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation,
ho I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.

9:42 And as he a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare
him.

And Jesus rebuked tspirit, and healed the child, and
delivered him again to his father.

ey were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while
they wonderedat all things which Jesus did, he said unto
his disciples, 9:44 Let th sink down into your ears: for
the Son of man shall be delivered into f men.

9:45 But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from hey perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying.

9:46arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be
greatest.

9:47  perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child,
and set him by h said unto them, Whosoever shall receive
this child in my name receivewhosoever shall receive me
receiveth him that sent me: for he that is you all, the
same shall be great.

9:49 And John answered and said, Maw one casting out devils
in thy name; and we forbad him, because he fowith us.

9:50 And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that ist us is for us.

9:51 And it came to pass, when the time was come thatbe
received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, 9:52 Anengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a
village of tritans, to make ready for him.

9:53 And they did not receive him, becce was as though he
would go to Jerusalem.

9:54 And when his disciple John saw this, they said, Lord,
wilt thou that we command fire to com heaven, and consume
them, even as Elias did?  9:55 But he turned, andem, and
said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.

9:56 For tan is not come to destroy men’s lives, but to
save them. And they weher village.

9:57 And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way,man
said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air
have nestsn of man hath not where to lay his head.

9:59 And he said unto anothe. But he said, Lord, suffer me
first to go and bury my father.

9:60 Jto him, Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou
and preach the kingd
9:61 And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me firshem farewell, which are at home at my house.

9:62 And Jesus said unto, having put his hand to the
plough, and looking back, is fit for the od.

10:1 After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, an two and two before his face into every city and place,
whither he himd come.

10:2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great,bourers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he
woth labourers into his harvest.

10:3 Go your ways: behold, I send you mbs among wolves.

10:4 Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: andman by
the way.

10:5 And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Pthis
house.

10:6 And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall r:
if not, it shall turn to you again.

10:7 And in the same house remaand drinking such things as
they give: for the labourer is worthy of ho not from house
to house.

10:8 And into whatsoever city ye enter, anve you, eat such
things as are set before you: 10:9 And heal the sick rein,
and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.

10oever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go
your ways out into tn the
very dust of your city, which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off aga, that the kingdom of God is
come nigh unto you.

10:12 But I say untot day
for Sodom, than for that city.

10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! wy works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in
you,  sackcloth and
ashes.

10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt be
thrust down u heareth me; and he that despiseth you
despiseth me; and he that desp And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the
devilAnd he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from
heaven.

 on serpents and
scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nmeans hurt you.

10:20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the s you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written
in heaven.

1rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven a that thou hast hid these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast rem unto babes: even so,
Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.

1hings are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knoweth
who the Sonhe Father; and who the Father is, but the Son,
and he to whom the Son eal him.

10:23 And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privated are the eyes which see the things that ye see: 10:24 For I
tell you, prophets and kings have desired to see those
things which ye see, andhose things
which ye hear, and have not heard them.

10:25 And, beholdd up, and tempted him, saying,
Master, what shall I do to inherit eter0:26 He said unto
him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?  ve the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and witand thy neighbour as thyself.

10:28 And he said unto him, Thou hast a

10:29 But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who isaid, A certain man went down
from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell amon, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.

10:31 And by at way: and
when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.

10:32 Anace, came and looked
on him, and passed by on the other side.

10:33 B came where he was: and
when he saw him, he had compassion on him, 10:, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own
beast, and brought h on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and
gave them and said unto him, Take care of him; and
whatsoever thou spendest more:36 Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him
th, He that shewed mercy
on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do th, as they went, that he entered into a
certain village: and a certain her house.

10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at  feet,
and heard his word.

10:40 But Martha was cumbered about much snd came to him, and
said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath to serve
alone?  bid her therefore that she help me.

10:41 And Jesus and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art
careful and troubled aboungs: 10:42 But one thing is
needful: and Mary hath chosen that good pah shall not be taken
away from her.

11:1 And it came to pass, that, a praying in a certain place,
when he ceased, one of his disciples saidLord, teach us to
pray, as John also taught his disciples.

11:2 And hto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in
heaven, Hallowed be. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as
in heaven, so in earth.

11:day by day our daily bread.

11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we alsovery one that is
indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but from
evil.

11:5 And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a frieall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three
l For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I
have nothingfore him?  11:7 And he from within shall answer
and say, Trouble me no is now shut, and my children are
with me in bed; I cannot rise and gi11:8 I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he
nd, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give
him as many ath.

11:9 And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, anfind; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

11:10 For every one thareceiveth; and he that seeketh
findeth; and to him that knocketh it shned.

11:11 If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, we him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a
serp he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a
scorpion?  11:13 If ye then,l, know how to give good gifts
unto your children: how much more shallenly Father give the
Holy Spirit to them that ask him?  11:14 And he wut a
devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was ge dumb spake; and the people wondered.

11:15 But some of them said, Hut devils through Beelzebub
the chief of the devils.

11:16 And others him, sought of him a sign from heaven.

11:17 But he, knowing their tsaid unto them, Every kingdom
divided against itself is brought to desnd a house divided
against a house falleth.

11:18 If Satan also be dinst himself, how shall his kingdom
stand? because ye say that I cast othrough Beelzebub.

11:19 And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by wh sons cast
them out? therefore shall they be your judges.

11:20 But i the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the
kingdom of God is comn you.

11:21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods ar
peace: 11:22 But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and
ove, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted,
and divideth h

11:23 He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathereth noscattereth.

11:24 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he wagh
dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will returnhouse whence I came out.

11:25 And when he cometh, he findeth it swepshed.

11:26 Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits moren himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last state
of tworse than the first.

11:27 And it came to pass, as he spake these thtain woman
of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Bles
womb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked.

11:28 But ea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of
God, and keep it.

1red thick together, he began to
say, This is an evil generation: they e given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet.

11:30 For as Jonas wasto the Ninevites, so shall also the
Son of man be to this generation.
queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the
men of this , and condemn them: for she came from the utmost
parts of the earth towisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a
greater than Solomon is here.

11:32f Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this
generation, and shallt: for they repented at the preaching
of Jonas; and, behold, a greater is here.

11:33 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in lace, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which
cosee the light.

11:34 The light of the body is the eye: therefore when is
single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye iy body also is full of darkness.

11:35 Take heed therefore that the lis in thee be not
darkness.

11:36 If thy whole body therefore be full having no part
dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the brg of
a candle doth give thee light.

11:37 And as he spake, a certain sought him to dine with
him: and he went in, and sat down to meat.

11n the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first
washed befor

11:39 And the Lord said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees make clean the the cup and the platter; but your inward part is full of
ravening and.

11:40 Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without make thaithin also?  11:41 But rather give alms of such things as ye
have; andall things are clean unto you.

11:42 But woe unto you, Pharisees! forint and rue and all
manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the lothese
ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.

11:43ou, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the
synagogues, and in the markets.

11:44 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocritese as
graves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not em.

11:45 Then answered one of the lawyers, and said unto him, Masterg thou reproachest us also.

11:46 And he said, Woe unto you also, ye r ye lade men with
burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touburdens
with one of your fingers.

11:47 Woe unto you! for ye build ths of the prophets, and
your fathers killed them.

11:48 Truly ye bear  ye allow the deeds of your fathers:
for they indeed killed them, and  sepulchres.

11:49 Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will sendm prophets
and apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecutat the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation
od, may be required of this generation; 11:51 From the blood
of Abel unood of Zacharias which perished between the altar
and the temple: veriunto you, It shall be required of this
generation.

11:52 Woe unto you for ye have taken away the key of
knowledge: ye entered not in yoursehem that were entering
in ye hindered.

11:53 And as he said these thiem, the scribes and the
Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, and tom to speak of
many things: 11:54 Laying wait for him, and seeking to ching
out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.

12:1 In the mean there were gathered together an
innumerable multitude of people, insomuy trode one upon
another, he began to say unto his disciples first of  ye of
the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.

12:2 For therng covered, that shall not be revealed; neither
hid, that shall not be:3 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in
tand that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall
be proclaime housetops.

12:4 And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them
the body, and after that have no more that they can do.

12:5 But I wrn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after
he hath killed hath pt into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear
him.

12:6 Are not five sparrowtwo farthings, and not one of them
is forgotten before God?  12:7 But very hairs of your head
are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are ovalue than many
sparrows.

12:8 Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall cbefore men, him
shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of But
he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels o2:10 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it
shallen him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy
Ghost it shall iven.

12:11 And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto
magnd powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall
answer, or whl say: 12:12 For the Holy Ghost shall teach you
in the same hour what o say.

12:13 And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to m that he divide the inheritance with me.

12:14 And he said unto him, de me a judge or a divider over
you?  12:15 And he said unto them, Takd beware of
covetousness: for a man’s life consisteth not in the abu the
things which he possesseth.

12:16 And he spake a parable unto th, The ground of a
certain rich man brought forth plentifully: 12:17 Anht
within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room whew my fruits?  12:18 And he said, This will I do: I will pull
down my bbuild greater; and there will I bestow all my
fruits and my goods.

12ill say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up
for many years; ease, eat, drink, and be merry.

12:20 But God said unto him, Thou foght thy soul shall be
required of thee: then whose shall those things  thou hast
provided?  12:21 So is he that layeth up treasure for himse
not rich toward God.

12:22 And he said unto his disciples, Therefore you, Take
no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for that ye shall put on.

12:23 The life is more than meat, and the body is raiment.

12:24 Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; wer have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more
are ythan the fowls?  12:25 And which of you with taking
thought can add tore one cubit?  12:26 If ye then be not
able to do that thing which is take ye thought for the
rest?  12:27 Consider the lilies how they growil not, they
spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all hisnot arrayed like one of these.

12:28 If then God so clothe the grass,o day in the field,
and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much moreclothe you,
O ye of little faith?  12:29 And seek not ye what ye shallhat ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.

12:30 For all thedo the nations of the world seek after: and
your Father knoweth that yd of these things.

12:31 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and al be added unto you.

12:32 Fear not, little flock; for it is your Fatd pleasure to
give you the kingdom.

12:33 Sell that ye have, and givevide yourselves bags which
wax not old, a treasure in the heavens thatt, where no
thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth.

12:34 For wheasure is, there will your heart be also.

12:35 Let your loins be girdand your lights burning; 12:36
And ye yourselves like unto men that wair lord, when he will
return from the wedding; that when he cometh andh, they may
open unto him immediately.

12:37 Blessed are those servanthe lord when he cometh shall
find watching: verily I say unto you, th gird himself, and
make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth them.

12:38 And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the , and find them so, blessed are those servants.

12:39 And this know, e goodman of the house had known what
hour the thief would come, he wotched, and not have
suffered his house to be broken through.

12:40 Before ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour
when ye think noThen Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto
us, orll?  12:42 And the Lord said, Who then is that
faithful and wise stewais lord shall make ruler over his
household, to give them their portioin due season?  12:43
Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cl find so
doing.

12:44 Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make hver all
that he hath.

12:45 But and if that servant say in his heart,layeth his
coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidensat and drink, and to be drunken; 12:46 The lord of that servant will
cay when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is
not aware, at him in sunder, and will appoint him his
portion with the unbelieversnd that servant, which knew his lord’s will, and prepared not
himsel did according to his will, shall be beaten with many
stripes.

12:48 at knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes,
shall be beaten tripes. For unto whomsoever much is given,
of him shall be much requir whom men have committed much, of
him they will ask the more.

12:49 I send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be
already kindled?  1 have a baptism to be baptized with; and
how am I straitened till it bhed!  12:51 Suppose ye that I
am come to give peace on earth? I tell yt rather division:
12:52 For from henceforth there shall be five in onvided,
three against two, and two against three.

12:53 The father shaided against the son, and the son against
the father; the mother againghter, and the daughter against
the mother; the mother in law against er in law, and the
daughter in law against her mother in law.

12:54 A also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of
the west, straighay, There cometh a shower; and so it is.

12:55 And when ye see the soow, ye say, There will be heat;
and it cometh to pass.

12:56 Ye hypoccan discern the face of the sky and of the
earth; but how is it that yiscern this time?  12:57 Yea, and
why even of yourselves judge ye not ht?  12:58 When thou
goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as  the way,
give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest ee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the
of thee into prison.

12:59 I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, thast paid
the very last mite.

13:1 There were present at that season old him of the
Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their s

13:2 And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these
Galilsinners above all the Galilaeans, because they
suffered such things?   you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye
shall all likewise perish.

13:4 ighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew
them, think ye tere sinners above all men that dwelt in
Jerusalem?  13:5 I tell you, Ncept ye repent, ye shall all
likewise perish.

13:6 He spake also this certain man had a fig tree planted
in his vineyard; and he came and st thereon, and found none.

13:7 Then said he unto the dresser of his ehold, these
three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and fit down; why cumbereth it the ground?  13:8 And he answering said unto
 alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and
dung it: 13:9 Anear fruit, well: and if not, then after that
thou shalt cut it down.

he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.

13:11 And, be was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity
eighteen years, and was ther, and could in no wise lift up
herself.

13:12 And when Jesus saw lled her to him, and said unto her,
Woman, thou art loosed from thine 

13:13 And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made
strd glorified God.

13:14 And the ruler of the synagogue answered with i,
because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the
ere are six days in which men ought to work: in them
therefore come aned, and not on the sabbath day.

13:15 The Lord then answered him, andu hypocrite, doth not
each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or hm the stall,
and lead him away to watering?  13:16 And ought not this ng
a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen
yeoosed from this bond on the sabbath day?  13:17 And when he
had said t all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the
people rejoiced for allous things that were done by him.

13:18 Then said he, Unto what is thof God like? and
whereunto shall I resemble it?  13:19 It is like a grtard
seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, anreat tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of
it.

13:n he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
13:21 It is likhich a woman took and hid in three measures
of meal, till the whole wa.

13:22 And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and
jooward Jerusalem.

13:23 Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few thd? And
he said unto them, 13:24 Strive to enter in at the strait gate: I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.

13:25 the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to
the door, and yestand without, and to knock at the door,
saying, Lord, Lord, open untoe shall answer and say unto
you, I know you not whence ye are: 13:26 Tye begin to say,
We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hasin our
streets.

13:27 But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whe;
depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.

13:28 There shall be wnd gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see
Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob,e prophets, in the kingdom of
God, and you yourselves thrust out.

13: shall come from the east, and from the west, and from
the north, and south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of
God.

13:30 And, behold, tast which shall be first, and there are
first which shall be last.

13me day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto
him, Get thee epart hence: for Herod will kill thee.

13:32 And he said unto them, Gd tell that fox, Behold, I cast
out devils, and I do cures to day and , and the third day I
shall be perfected.

13:33 Nevertheless I must w and to morrow, and the day
following: for it cannot be that a prophett of Jerusalem.

13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophonest
them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thn together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and
ye wou3:35 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and
verily I say un shall not see me, until the time come when
ye shall say, Blessed is hth in the name of the Lord.

14:1 And it came to pass, as he went intoe of one of the
chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that d
him.

14:2 And, behold, there was a certain man before him which hady.

14:3 And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saylawful to heal on the sabbath day?  14:4 And they held their
peace. An him, and healed him, and let him go; 14:5 And
answered them, saying, ou shall have an ass or an ox fallen
into a pit, and will not straighthim out on the sabbath day?
14:6 And they could not answer him again tings.

14:7 And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, whe how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them.

14:8 When thouen of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the
highest room; lest a mhan thou be bidden of him;
14:9 And he that bade thee and him come andee, Give this man
place; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest 10 But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room;
that hat bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go
up higher: thenu have worship in the presence of them that
sit at meat with thee.

14osoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that
humbleth himselfxalted.

14:12 Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makesr or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither
thy kiny rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again,
and a recompence be 

14:13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the
llind: 14:14 And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot
recompense thee shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of
the just.

14:15 And whenem that sat at meat with him heard these
things, he said unto him, Blethat shall eat bread in the
kingdom of God.

14:16 Then said he unto hin man made a great supper, and
bade many: 14:17 And sent his servant time to say to them
that were bidden, Come; for all things are now reaAnd they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first
said untve bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go
and see it: I pray th excused.

14:19 And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, anprove them: I pray thee have me excused.

14:20 And another said, I ha a wife, and therefore I cannot
come.

14:21 So that servant came, ands lord these things. Then the
master of the house being angry said to , Go out quickly
into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in poor,
and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.

14:22 And the servLord, it is done as thou hast commanded,
and yet there is room.

14:23ord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and
hedges, and com to come in, that my house may be filled.

14:24 For I say unto you, of those men which were bidden
shall taste of my supper.

14:25 And threat multitudes with him: and he turned, and
said unto them, 14:26 If e to me, and hate not his father,
and mother, and wife, and children, en, and sisters, yea,
and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.d whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot
be my d

14:28 For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not downnd counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?
14:29 Lafter he hath laid the foundation, and is not able
to finish it, all t it begin to mock him, 14:30 Saying, This
man began to build, and was to finish.

14:31 Or what king, going to make war against another kingnot down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand tousand?  14:32 Or else,
while the other is yet a great way off, he sendd
desireth conditions of peace.

14:33 So likewise, whosoever he be offorsaketh not all that
he hath, he cannot be my disciple.

14:34 Salt ut if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith
shall it be seasoned?  either fit for the land, nor yet
for the dunghill; but men cast it outhath ears to hear, let
him hear.

15:1 Then drew near unto him all the and sinners for to hear
him.

15:2 And the Pharisees and scribes murmng, This man
receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.

15:3 And he sparable unto them, saying, 15:4 What man of
you, having an hundred sheepe one of them, doth not leave
the ninety and nine in the wilderness, ar that which is
lost, until he find it?  15:5 And when he hath found ith it
on his shoulders, rejoicing.

15:6 And when he cometh home, he cether his friends and
neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; found my
sheep which was lost.

15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy n heaven over one
sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and ninsons,
which need no repentance.

15:8 Either what woman having ten pieer, if she lose one
piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the housk
diligently till she find it?  15:9 And when she hath found it, she
cfriends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with
me; for I hathe piece which I had lost.

15:10 Likewise, I say unto you, there is ence of the
angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.

15:11 And hn man had two sons: 15:12 And the younger
of them said to his father, e me the portion of goods that
falleth to me. And he divided unto themg.

15:13 And not many days after the younger son gathered all togethek his journey into a far country, and there wasted his
substance with ving.

15:14 And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in; and he began to be in want.

15:15 And he went and joined himself toof that country; and
he sent him into his fields to feed swine.

15:16uld fain have filled his belly with the husks that the
swine did eat:  gave unto him.

15:17 And when he came to himself, he said, How many ants of
my father’s have bread enough and to spare, and I perish wit5:18 I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father,
ed against heaven, and before thee, 15:19 And am no more
worthy to be  son: make me as one of thy hired servants.

15:20 And he arose, and c father. But when he was yet a
great way off, his father saw him, and sion, and ran, and
fell on his neck, and kissed him.

15:21 And the soo him, Father, I have sinned against heaven,
and in thy sight, and am rthy to be called thy son.

15:22 But the father said to his servants,rth the best robe,
and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and is feet:
15:23 And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let d be merry: 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he
was is found. And they began to be merry.

15:25 Now his elder son was in and as he came and drew nigh
to the house, he heard musick and dancinnd he called one of the servants, and asked what these things
meant.

he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath
killed the lf, because he hath received him safe and sound.

15:28 And he was angld not go in: therefore came his father
out, and intreated him.

15:29swering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I
serve thee, neitessed I at any time thy commandment: and
yet thou never gavest me a kimight make merry with my
friends: 15:30 But as soon as this thy son waich hath
devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him thlf.

15:31 And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all tis thine.

15:32 It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: fy
brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.

1 said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich
man, which hadand the same was accused unto him that he
had wasted his goods.

16:2 led him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this
of thee? give af thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no
longer steward.

16:3 Then thsaid within himself, What shall I do? for my
lord taketh away from me ship: I cannot dig; to beg I am
ashamed.

16:4 I am resolved what to den I am put out of the
stewardship, they may receive me into their houSo he called every one of his lord’s debtors unto him, and said
unto How much owest thou unto my lord?  16:6 And he said,
An hundred measu. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and
sit down quickly, and write6:7 Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An
sures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and
write fourscoAnd the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done
wisely:hildren of this world are in their generation wiser
than the children 16:9 And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of
uess; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into
everlasting habitat10 He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in
muchat is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.

16:11 If therefore t been faithful in the unrighteous
mammon, who will commit to your true riches?  16:12 And if
ye have not been faithful in that which is anos, who shall
give you that which is your own?  16:13 No servant can sasters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else
hd to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God
and mammon.

he Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these
things: and theym.

16:15 And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves
 knoweth your hearts: for that which is highly
esteemed among men is ain the sight of God.

16:16 The law and the prophets were until John: time the
kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.

t is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle
of the law t:18 Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another,
committeth and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from
her husband committet.

16:19 There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and, and fared sumptuously every day: 16:20 And there was a
certain beggaazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of
sores, 16:21 And desiring with the crumbs which fell from
the rich man’s table: moreover the dnd licked his sores.

16:22 And it came to pass, that the beggar died,arried by
the angels into Abraham’s bosom: the rich man also died, aed; 16:23 And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and
seet afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.

16:24 And he cried and said, Fatm, have mercy on me, and
send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his water, and cool
my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.

16:25 Bum said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime
receivedst thy good thlikewise Lazarus evil things: but now
he is comforted, and thou art to
16:26 And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf
fat they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither
can they pahat would come from thence.

16:27 Then he said, I pray thee therefore that thou wouldest
send him to my father’s house: 16:28 For I have ren; that he
may testify unto them, lest they also come into this plact.

16:29 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; le them.

16:30 And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto the dead, they will repent.

16:31 And he said unto him, If they hear nnd the prophets,
neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from 7:1 Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but that
offence: but woe unto him, through whom they come!  17:2 It
were better for hmillstone were hanged about his neck, and
he cast into the sea, than tuld offend one of these little
ones.

17:3 Take heed to yourselves: Ifr trespass against thee,
rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.

1he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven
times in a dan to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt
forgive him.

17:5 And the apod unto the Lord, Increase our faith.

17:6 And the Lord said, If ye ha a grain of mustard seed, ye
might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thop by the root, and
be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle,
will say untand by, when he is come from the field, Go and
sit down to meat?  17:8ot rather say unto him, Make ready
wherewith I may sup, and gird thyseve me, till I have eaten
and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and7:9 Doth he
thank that servant because he did the things that were com?
I trow not.

17:10 So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all thosech
are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done
 was our duty to do.

17:11 And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalssed
through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.

17:12 And as he enterellage, there met him ten men
that were lepers, which stood afar off: 1ed up their
voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.

17:14 them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto
the priests. And it c as they went, they were
cleansed.

17:15 And one of them, when he sawed, turned back,
and with a loud voice glorified God, 17:16 And fell d
at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.

17:17 And Jesaid, Were there not ten cleansed? but where
are the nine?  17:18 Therd that returned to give glory
to God, save this stranger.

17:19 And hise, go thy way: thy faith hath made
thee whole.

17:20 And when he wae Pharisees, when the kingdom of
God should come, he answered them andgdom of God cometh
not with observation: 17:21 Neither shall they say,r, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.

17:22 And he said unto tys will come, when ye
shall desire to see one of the days of the Son oll
not see it.

17:23 And they shall say to you, See here; or, see the after
them, nor follow them.

17:24 For as the lightning, that lighte the one part under
heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; lso the
Son of man be in his day.

17:25 But first must he suffer manynd be rejected of this
generation.

17:26 And as it was in the days ofhall it be also in the
days of the Son of man.

17:27 They did eat, ththey married wives, they were given in
marriage, until the day that No into the ark, and the flood
came, and destroyed them all.

17:28 Likes it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they
drank, they bought, thhey planted, they builded; 17:29 But
the same day that Lot went out ofrained fire and brimstone
from heaven, and destroyed them all.

17:30 hall it be in the day when the Son of man is
revealed.

17:31 In that ch shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff
in the house, let him not to take it away: and he that is in
the field, let him likewise not re

17:32 Remember Lot’s wife.

17:33 Whosoever shall seek to save his lose it; and
whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.

17:34 , in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the
one shall be tahe other shall be left.

17:35 Two women shall be grinding together; tall be taken,
and the other left.

17:36 Two men shall be in the fieldhall be taken, and the
other left.

17:37 And they answered and said uere, Lord? And he said
unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither wiles be
gathered together.

18:1 And he spake a parable unto them to thiat men ought
always to pray, and not to faint; 18:2 Saying, There was 
judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: 18:3 And there wasin that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine
adversand he would not for a while: but afterward he said within
himself, Thor not God, nor regard man; 18:5 Yet because this
widow troubleth me, Ige her, lest by her continual coming
she weary me.

18:6 And the Lord r what the unjust judge saith.

18:7 And shall not God avenge his own ch cry day and night
unto him, though he bear long with them?  18:8 I hat he will
avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man com
he find faith on the earth?  18:9 And he spake this parable unto
certtrusted in themselves that they were righteous, and
despised others: 1men went up into the temple to pray; the
one a Pharisee, and the othern.

18:11 The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I than I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust,
adulterers, or even blican.

18:12 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I p8:13 And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much
asunto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be
merciful to me 

18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather
ter: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased;
and he that hself shall be exalted.

18:15 And they brought unto him also infants, ld touch
them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.

18:1s called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children
to come unto rbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of
God.

18:17 Verily I say  Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom
of God as a little child shal enter therein.

18:18 And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Masshall I
do to inherit eternal life?  18:19 And Jesus said unto him, Whhou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.

18:20 Thou knowestdments, Do not commit adultery, Do not
kill, Do not steal, Do not bearess, Honour thy father and
thy mother.

18:21 And he said, All these h from my youth up.

18:22 Now when Jesus heard these things, he said uYet lackest
thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute un,
and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.

18:23 e heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very
rich.

18:24 And  saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How
hardly shall they that hs enter into the kingdom of God!
18:25 For it is easier for a camel togh a needle’s eye, than
for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of y that heard it said, Who then can be saved?  18:27 And
he said, The tich are impossible with men are possible with
God.

18:28 Then Peter swe have left all, and followed thee.

18:29 And he said unto them, Verunto you, There is no man
that hath left house, or parents, or brethre or children,
for the kingdom of God’s sake, 18:30 Who shall not recold
more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasti1 Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we
go alem, and all things that are written by the prophets
concerning the Shall be accomplished.

18:32 For he shall be delivered unto the Gentilall be
mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on: 18:33 And theurge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise
again.d they understood none of these things: and this saying was
hid from ter knew they the things which were spoken.

18:35 And it came to pass, was come nigh unto Jericho, a
certain blind man sat by the way side b:36 And hearing the
multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.

18:37 old him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.

18:38 And he cried, sayinthou son of David, have mercy on
me.

18:39 And they which went beforeim, that he should hold his
peace: but he cried so much the more, Thouvid, have mercy on
me.

18:40 And Jesus stood, and commanded him to bento him: and
when he was come near, he asked him, 18:41 Saying, What wat
I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sighAnd Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved
thee.d immediately he received his sight, and followed him,
glorifying God:the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto
God.

19:1 And Jesus enpassed through Jericho.

19:2 And, behold, there was a man named Zacchh was the chief
among the publicans, and he was rich.

19:3 And he sou Jesus who he was; and could not for the
press, because he was little .

19:4 And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see
e was to pass that way.

19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he lood saw him, and
said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; fo must
abide at thy house.

19:6 And he made haste, and came down, and im joyfully.

19:7 And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, Thone
to be guest with a man that is a sinner.

19:8 And Zacchaeus stood unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the
half of my goods I give to the poor; have taken any thing
from any man by false accusation, I restore him 
19:9 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this
housch as he also is a son of Abraham.

19:10 For the Son of man is come td to save that which was
lost.

19:11 And as they heard these things, use he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the
kingdo19:12 He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country tofor himself a kingdom, and to return.

19:13 And he called his ten ser delivered them ten pounds,
and said unto them, Occupy till I come.

1s citizens hated him, and sent a message after him,
saying, We will nos man to reign over us.

19:15 And it came to pass, that when he was rving received
the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be callhim,
to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much everyained by trading.

19:16 Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound  ten
pounds.

19:17 And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: bechast
been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten citi And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five
pounds.d he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.

19:20 And ame, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which
I have kept laid upin: 19:21 For I feared thee, because thou
art an austere man: thou takhat thou layedst not down, and
reapest that thou didst not sow.

19:22th unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee,
thou wicked ser knewest that I was an austere man, taking up
that I laid not down, anhat I did not sow: 19:23 Wherefore
then gavest not thou my money into  that at my coming I might
have required mine own with usury?  19:24 Athem that
stood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that h
19:25 (And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.)  19:26 For you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and from
him that  even that he hath shall be taken away from him.

19:27 But those minehich would not that I should reign over
them, bring hither, and slay tme.

19:28 And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up tm.

19:29 And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and
t the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his
disciples, ng, Go ye into the village over against you; in
the which at your enteall find a colt tied, whereon yet
never man sat: loose him, and bring 

19:31 And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say, Because the Lord hath need of him.

19:32 And they that were sent weway, and found even as he had
said unto them.

19:33 And as they were  colt, the owners thereof said unto
them, Why loose ye the colt?  19:3y said, The Lord hath need
of him.

19:35 And they brought him to Jesu cast their garments upon
the colt, and they set Jesus thereon.

19:36e went, they spread their clothes in the way.

19:37 And when he was ceven now at the descent of the mount
of Olives, the whole multitude ofiples began to rejoice and
praise God with a loud voice for all the mi that they had
seen; 19:38 Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in f the
Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.

19:39 And somearisees from among the multitude said unto
him, Master, rebuke thy dis9:40 And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these
shoeir peace, the stones would immediately cry out.

19:41 And when he waear, he beheld the city, and wept over it,
19:42 Saying, If thou hadstven thou, at least in this thy
day, the things which belong unto thy pow they are hid from
thine eyes.

19:43 For the days shall come upon tthine enemies shall cast
a trench about thee, and compass thee round, thee in on every
side, 19:44 And shall lay thee even with the ground, hildren
within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon acause thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.

19:45 And he went emple, and began to cast out them that
sold therein, and them that bou Saying unto them, It is
written, My house is the house of prayer: butade it a den of
thieves.

19:47 And he taught daily in the temple. But priests and the
scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy48 And
could not find what they might do: for all the people were very to hear him.

20:1 And it came to pass, that on one of those days, ast the
people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priestsibes came upon him with the elders, 20:2 And spake unto him,
saying, T what authority doest thou these things? or who is
he that gave thee tty?  20:3 And he answered and said unto
them, I will also ask you one d answer me: 20:4 The baptism
of John, was it from heaven, or of men? they reasoned with
themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; h, Why
then believed ye him not?  20:6 But and if we say, Of men; all te will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.

20:7 nswered, that they could not tell whence it was.

20:8 And Jesus said , Neither tell I you by what authority I
do these things.

20:9 Then b speak to the people this parable; A certain man
planted a vineyard, aorth to husbandmen, and went into a
far country for a long time.

20:1he season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they
should give hfruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat
him, and sent him away :11 And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, and
entshamefully, and sent him away empty.

20:12 And again he sent a third:wounded him also, and cast
him out.

20:13 Then said the lord of the vhat shall I do? I will send
my beloved son: it may be they will reverewhen they see him.

20:14 But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasonhemselves,
saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the imay be ours.

20:15 So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed htherefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?  20:16 He shallhese husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to
others. And when they hey said, God forbid.

20:17 And he beheld them, and said, What is thit is written,
The stone which the builders rejected, the same is becom of
the corner?  20:18 Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be
bt on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.

20:19 And priests and the scribes the same hour sought to
lay hands on him; andd the people: for they perceived that
he had spoken this parable again
20:20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign
 just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so
they might m unto the power and authority of the governor.

20:21 And they asked g, Master, we know that thou sayest and
teachest rightly, neither acce the person of any, but
teachest the way of God truly: 20:22 Is it laws to give
tribute unto Caesar, or no?  20:23 But he perceived their crand said unto them, Why tempt ye me?  20:24 Shew me a penny. Whose
imaerscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar’s.

20:25 And heo them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things
which be Caesar’s, ad the things which be God’s.

20:26 And they could not take hold of efore the people: and
they marvelled at his answer, and held their pea Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there
is ation; and they asked him, 20:28 Saying, Master, Moses
wrote unto us, I’s brother die, having a wife, and he die
without children, that hisould take his wife, and raise up
seed unto his brother.

20:29 There wfore seven brethren: and the first took a wife,
and died without child And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.

20:31 And thook her; and in like manner the seven also: and
they left no children,

20:32 Last of all the woman died also.

20:33 Therefore in the resurose wife of them is she? for
seven had her to wife.

20:34 And Jesus aaid unto them, The children of this world
marry, and are given in marr35 But they which shall be
accounted worthy to obtain that world, and ection from the
dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: 20:36 they
die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the chiod, being the children of the resurrection.

20:37 Now that the dead a even Moses shewed at the bush,
when he calleth the Lord the God of Ab the God of Isaac, and
the God of Jacob.

20:38 For he is not a God of but of the living: for all live
unto him.

20:39 Then certain of the swering said, Master, thou hast
well said.

20:40 And after that they t ask him any question at all.

20:41 And he said unto them, How say tChrist is David’s son?
20:42 And David himself saith in the book of e LORD said
unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 20:43 Till I makeemies thy footstool.

20:44 David therefore calleth him Lord, how is h son?  20:45
Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his d20:46 Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and
lings in the markets, and the highest seats in the
synagogues, and the  at feasts; 20:47 Which devour widows’
houses, and for a shew make ls: the same shall receive
greater damnation.

21:1 And he looked up, a rich men casting their gifts into
the treasury.

21:2 And he saw also poor widow casting in thither two
mites.

21:3 And he said, Of a truto you, that this poor widow hath
cast in more than they all: 21:4 For e have of their abundance
cast in unto the offerings of God: but she ory hath cast in
all the living that she had.

21:5 And as some spake ole, how it was adorned with goodly
stones and gifts, he said, 21:6 As things which ye behold,
the days will come, in the which there shall n one stone
upon another, that shall not be thrown down.

21:7 And they, saying, Master, but when shall these things
be?  and what sign will when these things shall come to pass?
21:8 And he said, Take heed that deceived: for many shall
come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and theth near: go ye
not therefore after them.

21:9 But when ye shall heard commotions, be not terrified:
for these things must first come to pand is not by and
by.

21:10 Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise  nation, and
kingdom against kingdom: 21:11 And great earthquakes shalvers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and
greahall there be from heaven.

21:12 But before all these, they shall layds on you, and
persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, andns,
being brought before kings and rulers for my name’s sake.

21:13ll turn to you for a testimony.

21:14 Settle it therefore in your heao meditate before what
ye shall answer: 21:15 For I will give you a mosdom, which
all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resi And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and
kinsfolksds; and some of you shall they cause to be put to
death.

21:17 And yeated of all men for my name’s sake.

21:18 But there shall not an hahead perish.

21:19 In your patience possess ye your souls.

21:20 Andshall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know
that the desolati is nigh.

21:21 Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountait
them which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that
countries enter thereinto.

21:22 For these be the days of vengeance, hings which are
written may be fulfilled.

21:23 But woe unto them tha child, and to them that give
suck, in those days! for there shall be ess in the land,
and wrath upon this people.

21:24 And they shall faldge of the sword, and shall be led
away captive into all nations: and shall be trodden down of
the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentilesled.

21:25 And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and s; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the
sea an roaring; 21:26 Men’s hearts failing them for fear,
and for looking ose things which are coming on the earth: for
the powers of heaven shaen.

21:27 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud wind great glory.

21:28 And when these things begin to come to pass, th, and
lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.

21:29 Ande to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the
trees; 21:30 Whew shoot forth, ye see and know of your own
selves that summer is now nnd.

21:31 So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, knowe kingdom of God is nigh at hand.

21:32 Verily I say unto you, This ghall not pass away, till
all be fulfilled.

21:33 Heaven and earth shaay: but my words shall not pass
away.

21:34 And take heed to yourselvt any time your hearts be
overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkennesss of this life,
and so that day come upon you unawares.

21:35 For as all it come on all them that dwell on the face
of the whole earth.

21ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted
worthy to escaese things that shall come to pass, and to
stand before the Son of mand in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night
he went bode in the mount that is called the mount of
Olives.

21:38 And all tcame early in the morning to him in the
temple, for to hear him.

22:1east of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the
Passover.

22: chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him;
for they fepeople.

22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being oer of the twelve.

22:4 And he went his way, and communed with the chi and
captains, how he might betray him unto them.

22:5 And they were covenanted to give him money.

22:6 And he promised, and sought opportetray him unto them
in the absence of the multitude.

22:7 Then came tunleavened bread, when the passover must be
killed.

22:8 And he sent John, saying, Go and prepare us the
passover, that we may eat.

22:9 Aid unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?  22:10
And he said unto ld, when ye are entered into the city,
there shall a man meet you, beacher of water; follow him
into the house where he entereth in.

22:11 ll say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith
unto thee, Wherguestchamber, where I shall eat the passover
with my disciples?  22:12ll shew you a large upper room
furnished: there make ready.

22:13 And, and found as he had said unto them: and they made
ready the passovernd when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles
with h15 And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this
passoyou before I suffer: 22:16 For I say unto you, I will
not any more eatuntil it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.

22:17 And he took the cue thanks, and said, Take this, and
divide it among yourselves: 22:18 Funto you, I will not drink
of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdomall come.

22:19 And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, andthem, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in
rememme.

22:20 Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is theament in my blood, which is shed for you.

22:21 But, behold, the handt betrayeth me is with me on the
table.

22:22 And truly the Son of ma it was determined: but woe
unto that man by whom he is betrayed!  22:y began to enquire
among themselves, which of them it was that should ing.

22:24 And there was also a strife among them, which of them shouunted the greatest.

22:25 And he said unto them, The kings of the Genise
lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them areefactors.

22:26 But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest amonghim be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve.

2ether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that
serveth?  is notitteth at meat? but I am among you as he
that serveth.

22:28 Ye are t have continued with me in my temptations.

22:29 And I appoint unto ydom, as my Father hath appointed
unto me; 22:30 That ye may eat and dr table in my kingdom,
and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of 2:31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to
haat he may sift you as wheat: 22:32 But I have prayed for
thee, that thl not: and when thou art converted, strengthen
thy brethren.

22:33 An unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both
into prison, and to :34 And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this
day,at thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me.

22:35 And he said untn I sent you without purse, and scrip,
and shoes, lacked ye any thing?said, Nothing.

22:36 Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a t him
take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let is garment, and buy one.

22:37 For I say unto you, that this that is st yet be
accomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgresshe things concerning me have an end.

22:38 And they said, Lord, beholre two swords. And he said
unto them, It is enough.

22:39 And he camewent, as he was wont, to the mount of
Olives; and his disciples also f.

22:40 And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye into temptation.

22:41 And he was withdrawn from them about a stoneand kneeled
down, and prayed, 22:42 Saying, Father, if thou be willinghis cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.

22:43 appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening
him.

22:44 And re earnestly: and his sweat
was as it were great drops of blood fallinose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples,
he found them sleeprrow, 22:46 And said unto them, Why sleep
ye? rise and pray, lest ye etemptation.

22:47 And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he lled Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto
Je him.

22:48 But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son ofa kiss?  22:49 When they which were about him saw what would
follow, tunto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?
22:50 And one of them srvant of the high priest, and cut
off his right ear.

22:51 And Jesus nd said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched
his ear, and healed him.

en Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the
temple, and , which were come to him, Be ye come out, as
against a thief, with swoves?  22:53 When I was daily with
you in the temple, ye stretched fort against me: but this is
your hour, and the power of darkness.

22:54 they him, and led him, and brought him into the high
priest’s house. followed afar off.

22:55 And when they had kindled a fire in the midnd
were set down together, Peter sat down among them.

22:56 But a cerd beheld him as he sat by the fire, and
earnestly looked upon him, andis man was also with him.

22:57 And he denied him, saying, Woman, I kot.

22:58 And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou arthem. And Peter said, Man, I am not.

22:59 And about the space of oner another confidently
affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also wa: for he is
a Galilaean.

22:60 And Peter said, Man, I know not what tt. And
immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew.

22:61 And the d, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered
the word of the Lord, hsaid unto him, Before the cock crow,
thou shalt deny me thrice.

22:62 went out, and wept bitterly.

22:63 And the men that held Jesus mocke smote him.

22:64 And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him e,
and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?  22:65 ther things blasphemously spake they against him.

22:66 And as soon a day, the elders of the people and the
chief priests and the scribes cher, and led him into their
council, saying, 22:67 Art thou the ChristAnd he said unto
them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 22:68 And isk you,
ye will not answer me, nor let me go.

22:69 Hereafter shall tman sit on the right hand of the
power of God.

22:70 Then said they aou then the Son of God? And he said
unto them, Ye say that I am.

22:7 said, What need we any further witness? for we
ourselves have heard omouth.

23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto P:2 And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow
pervertition, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,
saying that he himselfa King.

23:3 And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Je answered him and said, Thou sayest it.

23:4 Then said Pilate to theests and to the people, I find
no fault in this man.

23:5 And they wee fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people,
teaching throughout all Jginning from Galilee to this place.

23:6 When Pilate heard of Galilee whether the man were a
Galilaean.

23:7 And as soon as he knew that hunto Herod’s
jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also waalem
at that time.

23:8 And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding gle was
desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many im; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.

23:9 Then he  with him in many words; but he answered him
nothing.

23:10 And the cs and scribes stood and vehemently accused
him.

23:11 And Herod with f war set him at nought, and mocked him,
and arrayed him in a gorgeoussent him again to Pilate.

23:12 And the same day Pilate and Herod werends together:
for before they were at enmity between themselves.

23:ate, when he had called together the chief priests and
the rulers and e, 23:14 Said unto them, Ye have brought this
man unto me, as one thath the people: and, behold, I, having
examined him before you, have fout in this man touching
those things whereof ye accuse him: 23:15 No, nod: for I
sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done un23:16 I will therefore chastise him, and release him.

23:17 (For of ny he must release one unto them at the feast.)
23:18 And they cried ouonce, saying, Away with this man, and
release unto us Barabbas: 23:19  certain sedition made in
the city, and for murder, was cast into pris0 Pilate
therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them.

23ey cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.

23:22 And he said unto thrd time, Why, what evil hath he
done? I have found no cause of death iill therefore chastise
him, and let him go.

23:23 And they were instaud voices, requiring that he might
be crucified. And the voices of thehe chief priests
prevailed.

23:24 And Pilate gave sentence that it sh they required.

23:25 And he released unto them him that for seditionr was
cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus ill.

23:26 And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross,
that he mi after Jesus.

23:27 And there followed him a great company of people,en,
which also bewailed and lamented him.

23:28 But Jesus turning untd, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep
not for me, but weep for yourselves, aur children.

23:29 For, behold, the days are coming, in the which theay,
Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the papver gave suck.

23:30 Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, F and
to the hills, Cover us.

23:31 For if they do these things in a ge, what shall be done
in the dry?  23:32 And there were also two othertors, led
with him to be put to death.

23:33 And when they were come ce, which is called Calvary,
there they crucified him, and the malefacon the right hand,
and the other on the left.

23:34 Then said Jesus, give them; for they know not what
they do. And they parted his raiment lots.

23:35 And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also withed him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be
Christen of God.

23:36 And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, andim vinegar, 23:37 And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save
th:38 And a superscription also was written over him in letters of
Greek, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

23:39 And one of the malech were hanged railed on him,
saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself :40 But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear
Gothou art in the same condemnation?  23:41 And we indeed
justly; for we the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath
done nothing amiss.

2 said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into
thy kingdom.d Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt
thou be wiaradise.

23:44 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darknll the earth until the ninth hour.

23:45 And the sun was darkened, an of the temple was rent in
the midst.

23:46 And when Jesus had cried d voice, he said, Father,
into thy hands I commend my spirit: and havius, he gave up
the ghost.

23:47 Now when the centurion saw what was dlorified God,
saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.

23:48 And aple that came together to that sight, beholding
the things which were e their breasts, and returned.

23:49 And all his acquaintance, and that followed him from
Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.
d, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he
was a go a just: 23:51 (The same had not consented to the
counsel and deed of as of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews:
who also himself waited for the  God.

23:52 This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.
 he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a
sepulchre  hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.

23:54 And that dayreparation, and the sabbath drew on.

23:55 And the women also, which him from Galilee, followed
after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his laid.

23:56 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; athe sabbath day according to the commandment.

24:1 Now upon the first week, very early in the morning,
they came unto the sepulchre, bringies which they had
prepared, and certain others with them.

24:2 And thhe stone rolled away from the sepulchre.

24:3 And they entered in, an the body of the Lord Jesus.

24:4 And it came to pass, as they were med thereabout,
behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: 24:5y
were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said untoseek ye the living among the dead?  24:6 He is not here, but
is risen:how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,
24:7 Saying, The Sont be delivered into the hands of sinful
men, and be crucified, and therise again.

24:8 And they remembered his words, 24:9 And returned frochre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the
rest.
was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James,
and otherat were with them, which told these things unto the
apostles.

24:11 Ar words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed
them not.

24:ose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down,
he beheld thclothes laid by themselves, and departed,
wondering in himself at thate to pass.

24:13 And, behold, two of them went that same day to a villed
Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.

24:14talked together of all these things which had happened.

24:15 And it ass, that, while they communed together and
reasoned, Jesus himself drd went with them.

24:16 But their eyes were holden that they should nm.

24:17 And he said unto them, What manner of communications are thehave one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?  24:18 And the
one of thame was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou
only a stranger in , and hast not known the things which are
come to pass there in these 19 And he said unto them, What
things? And they said unto him, Concernf Nazareth, which
was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God andeople:
24:20 And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him toned to death, and have crucified him.

24:21 But we trusted that it hahich should have redeemed
Israel: and beside all this, to day is the tay since these
things were done.

24:22 Yea, and certain women also ofny made us astonished,
which were early at the sepulchre; 24:23 And whound not his
body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision
which said that he was alive.

24:24 And certain of them which were wt to the sepulchre,
and found it even so as the women had said: but hinot.

24:25 Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to beliat the prophets have spoken: 24:26 Ought not Christ to have
suffered ts, and to enter into his glory?  24:27 And
beginning at Moses and all s, he expounded unto them in all
the scriptures the things concerning 24:28 And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he
mugh he would have gone further.

24:29 But they constrained him, sayinith us: for it is
toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he wenrry with
them.

24:30 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with thembread,
and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.

24:31 And their epened, and they knew him; and he vanished
out of their sight.

24:32 Aid one to another, Did not our heart burn within us,
while he talked wthe way, and while he opened to us the
scriptures?  24:33 And they ros same hour, and returned to
Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered tand them that were
with them, 24:34 Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, ppeared
to Simon.

24:35 And they told what things were done in the wa he was
known of them in breaking of bread.

24:36 And as they thus sp himself stood in the midst of
them, and saith unto them, Peace be unt37 But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they
had rit.

24:38 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoe in your hearts?  24:39 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I
myse me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as
ye see me havAnd when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his
feet.

2hile they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said
unto them, He any meat?  24:42 And they gave him a piece of
a broiled fish, and ofcomb.

24:43 And he took it, and did eat before them.

24:44 And he sahem, These are the words which I spake unto
you, while I was yet with all things must be fulfilled,
which were written in the law of Moses, e prophets, and in
the psalms, concerning me.

24:45 Then opened he thanding, that they might understand
the scriptures, 24:46 And said untoThus it is written, and thus
it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise ead the third day:
24:47 And that repentance and remission of sins shoeached in
his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.

24:48 Ae witnesses of these things.

24:49 And, behold, I send the promise of upon you: but tarry
ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued wfrom on
high.

24:50 And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he his
hands, and blessed them.

24:51 And it came to pass, while he bles he was parted from
them, and carried up into heaven.

24:52 And they  him, and returned to Jerusalem with great
joy: 24:53 And were continue temple, praising and blessing
God. Amen.




The Gospel According tohn


1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and was God.

1:2 The same was in the beginning with God.

1:3 All thingsby him; and without him was not any thing
made that was made.

1:4 In fe; and the life was the light of men.

1:5 And the light shineth in dnd the darkness comprehended
it not.

1:6 There was a man sent from Goname was John.

1:7 The same came for a witness, to bear witness of thhat
all men through him might believe.

1:8 He was not that Light, buto bear witness of that Light.

1:9 That was the true Light, which lighry man that cometh into
the world.

1:10 He was in the world, and the  made by him, and the world
knew him not.

1:11 He came unto his own, n received him not.

1:12 But as many as received him, to them gave hebecome the
sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: 1:13 Whrn, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of
manGod.

1:14 And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we belory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of
grace 

1:15 John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whoHe that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was
before me.
 of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.

1:17 For tgiven by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus
Christ.

1:18 No man God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is
in the bosom of the hath declared him.

1:19 And this is the record of John, when the Jewssts and
Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?  1:20 And he
and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.

1:21 And they askt then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am
not. Art thou that prophet?wered, No.

1:22 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may giswer
to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself?  1:23 He said, voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of
the Laid the prophet Esaias.

1:24 And they which were sent were of the Pha25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then,
if  that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet?  1:26
John answered the, I baptize with water: but there standeth
one among you, whom ye know He it is, who coming after me is
preferred before me, whose shoe’s am not worthy to unloose.

1:28 These things were done in Bethabara ben, where John was
baptizing.

1:29 The next day John seeth Jesus comin and saith, Behold
the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the w30 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is
preferred for he was before me.

1:31 And I knew him not: but that he should beest to
Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.

1:32 And Johord, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from
heaven like a dove, and pon him.

1:33 And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize withe same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending,
a on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy
Ghost.

1:34 Andd bare record that this is the Son of God.

1:35 Again the next day aff his disciples;
1:36 And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Bciples heard him speak, and they followed
Jesus.

1:38 Then Jesus turnem following, and saith unto them,
What seek ye? They said unto him, Rinterpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou?  1:39 He saith unto them,
Ce. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him
that day: for  tenth hour.

1:40 One of the two which heard John speak, and followedAndrew, Simon Peter’s brother.

1:41 He first findeth his own brothend saith unto him, We
have found the Messias, which is, being interprerist.

1:42 And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, heu art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is
by ion, A stone.

1:43 The day following Jesus would go forth into Galiledeth
Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.

1:44 Now Philip was of Behe city of Andrew and Peter.

1:45 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith We have found him,
of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did wrof
Nazareth, the son of Joseph.

1:46 And Nathanael said unto him, Can good thing come out of
Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see.saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an
Israelite indn whom is no guile!  1:48 Nathanael saith unto him,
Whence knowest thos answered and said unto him, Before that
Philip called thee, when thor the fig tree, I saw thee.

1:49 Nathanael answered and saith unto hithou art the Son of
God; thou art the King of Israel.

1:50 Jesus answaid unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw
thee under the fig tree, thou? thou shalt see greater things
than these.

1:51 And he saith unily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter
ye shall see heaven open, and tof God ascending and
descending upon the Son of man.

2:1 And the thire was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the
mother of Jesus was thereoth Jesus was called, and his
disciples, to the marriage.

2:3 And wheed wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him,
They have no wine.

2:4 Junto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine
hour is not yet com mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you,
do it.
here were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner
of the puthe Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.

2:7 Jesus saith untl the waterpots with water. And they
filled them up to the brim.

2:8  saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor
of the feasy bare it.

2:9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the
watthe governor of the feast called the bridegroom, 2:10 And
saith unto han at the beginning doth set forth good wine;
and when men have well d that which is worse: but thou hast
kept the good wine until now.

2:1nning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and
manifested forth hand his disciples believed on him.

2:12 After this he went down to Ca, and his mother, and his
brethren, and his disciples: and they continot many days.

2:13 And the Jews’ passover was at hand, and Jesus weerusalem.

2:14 And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep,
and the changers of money sitting: 2:15 And when he had made a scour cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep,
and the oxred out the changers’ money, and overthrew the
tables; 2:16 And said that sold doves, Take these things
hence; make not my Father’s housof merchandise.

2:17 And his disciples remembered that it was writtenof
thine house hath eaten me up.

2:18 Then answered the Jews and said What sign shewest thou
unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? sus answered and
said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three dayise it
up.

2:20 Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temping, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?  2:21 But he spake
of theis body.

2:22 When therefore he was risen from the dead, his discipleed that he had said this unto them; and they believed the
scripture, a which Jesus had said.

2:23 Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passo feast day,
many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles whic2:24 But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all
mAnd needed not that any should testify of man: for he knew
what was inThere was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the
Jewsame came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi,
we know that thocher come from God: for no man can do these
miracles that thou doest,  be with him.

3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, Ithee,
Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

3mus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old?
can he enter time into his mother’s womb, and be born?  3:5
Jesus answered, Veriy, I say unto thee, Except a man be born
of water and of the Spirit, henter into the kingdom of God.

3:6 That which is born of the flesh isnd that which is born
of the Spirit is spirit.

3:7 Marvel not that I thee, Ye must be born again.

3:8 The wind bloweth where it listeth, arest the sound
thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whithth: so
is every one that is born of the Spirit.

3:9 Nicodemus answere unto him, How can these things be?
3:10 Jesus answered and said unto ou a master of Israel,
and knowest not these things?  3:11 Verily, veray unto thee,
We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen;ve not our witness.

3:12 If I have told you earthly things, and ye be how shall
ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?  3:13 And no scended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son
h is in heaven.

3:14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilder so
must the Son of man be lifted up: 3:15 That whosoever believeth ind not perish, but have eternal life.

3:16 For God so loved the world,ave his only begotten Son,
that whosoever believeth in him should not t have
everlasting life.

3:17 For God sent not his Son into the world the world; but
that the world through him might be saved.

3:18 He thveth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth
not is condemned acause he hath not believed in the name of
the only begotten Son of Godndemnation, that light is come into the world,
and men loved darkness 

3:20 For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh  should be reproved.

3:21 But he that doeth truth cometh to the lights deeds may
be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.

3:22 Aftengs came Jesus and his disciples into the land of
Judaea; and there heth them, and baptized.

3:23 And John also was baptizing in Aenon near because there
was much water there: and they came, and were baptized. John was not yet cast into prison.

3:25 Then there arose a question me of John’s disciples and
the Jews about purifying.

3:26 And they ohn, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was
with thee beyond Jordan, tobarest witness, behold, the same
baptizeth, and all men come to him.

answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be
given him fn.

3:28 Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Chriat I am sent before him.

3:29 He that hath the bride is the bridegroo the friend of the
bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoice because
of the bridegroom’s voice: this my joy therefore is fulfill He must increase, but I must decrease.

3:31 He that cometh from abov all: he that is of the earth
is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: hth from heaven is
above all.

3:32 And what he hath seen and heard, thtifieth; and no man
receiveth his testimony.

3:33 He that hath receivimony hath set to his seal that God
is true.

3:34 For he whom God hatketh the words of God: for God
giveth not the Spirit by measure unto hhe Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his
hand.

3: believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that
believeth nothall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth
on him.

4:1 When therLORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that
Jesus made and baptized mors than John, 4:2 (Though Jesus
himself baptized not, but his disciplesleft Judaea, and
departed again into Galilee.

4:4 And he must needs gSamaria.

4:5 Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Syco the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.

4:6 Now Jacl was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with
his journey, sat thuswell: and it was about the sixth hour.

4:7 There cometh a woman of Sadraw water: Jesus saith unto
her, Give me to drink.

4:8 (For his disc gone away unto the city to buy meat.)  4:9
Then saith the woman of Sa him, How is it that thou, being a
Jew, askest drink of me, which am aSamaria? for the Jews
have no dealings with the Samaritans.

4:10 Jesud and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of
God, and who it is tho thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest
have asked of him, and he woul given thee living water.

4:11 The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou ha to draw with,
and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that ler?
4:12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the welnk thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?  4:13
Jesus answsaid unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water
shall thirst again: 4:soever drinketh of the water that I
shall give him shall never thirst;water that I shall give him
shall be in him a well of water springing rlasting life.

4:15 The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water
not, neither come hither to draw.

4:16 Jesus saith unto her, Go, cal husband, and come hither.

4:17 The woman answered and said, I have nnd. Jesus said unto
her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband: 4:18 ou hast had
five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husban
saidst thou truly.

4:19 The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive tht a
prophet.

4:20 Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye sayerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.

4:21 Jesus saith unoman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye
shall neither in this mountt at Jerusalem, worship the
Father.

4:22 Ye worship ye know not what:at we worship: for
salvation is of the Jews.

4:23 But the hour cometh, when the true worshippers shall
worship the Father in spirit and in the Father seeketh such
to worship him.

4:24 God is a Spirit: and theship him must worship him in
spirit and in truth.

4:25 The woman sait I know that Messias cometh, which is
called Christ: when he is come, l us all things.

4:26 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked
with tet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest
thou with her?  4:2then left her waterpot, and went her
way into the city, and saith to t9 Come, see a man, which
told me all things that ever I did: is not thhe Christ?  4:30 Then
they went out of the city, and came unto him.

4e mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.

4:32 But o them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.

4:33 Therefore said tes one to another, Hath any man brought
him ought to eat?  4:34 Jesus them, My meat is to do the
will of him that sent me, and to finish his5 Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest?
behounto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for
they are whitto harvest.

4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fife eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice
4:37 And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.
t you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men
laboured,  entered into their labours.

4:39 And many of the Samaritans of that ed on him for the
saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all I did.

4:40 So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besoughte would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.

4:41 And many md because of his own word; 4:42 And said
unto the woman, Now we believuse of thy saying: for we have
heard him ourselves, and know that thiseed the Christ, the
Saviour of the world.

4:43 Now after two days he ence, and went into Galilee.

4:44 For Jesus himself testified, that ath no honour in his
own country.

4:45 Then when he was come into Galililaeans received him,
having seen all the things that he did at Jeruse feast: for
they also went unto the feast.

4:46 So Jesus came again  of Galilee, where he made the water
wine. And there was a certain nobse son was sick at
Capernaum.

4:47 When he heard that Jesus was come daea into Galilee, he
went unto him, and besought him that he would cond heal his
son: for he was at the point of death.

4:48 Then said Jesim, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye
will not believe.

4:49 The noth unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.

4:50 Jesus saith unto h way; thy son liveth. And the man
believed the word that Jesus had spohim, and he went his way.

4:51 And as he was now going down, his servim, and told him,
saying, Thy son liveth.

4:52 Then enquired he of thur when he began to amend. And
they said unto him, Yesterday at the se the fever left him.

4:53 So the father knew that it was at the same he which
Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, anhole house.

4:54 This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, whewas come
out of Judaea into Galilee.

5:1 After this there was a feastws; and Jesus went up to
Jerusalem.

5:2 Now there is at Jerusalem by arket a pool, which is
called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having fi.

5:3 In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, haltd, waiting for the moving of the water.

5:4 For an angel went down atain season into the pool, and
troubled the water: whosoever then firstoubling of the
water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease h5 And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and
eight5:6 When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time
ase, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole?  5:7 The
impotent manhim, Sir, I have no man, when the water is
troubled, to put me into tht while I am coming, another
steppeth down before me.

5:8 Jesus saithm, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.

5:9 And immediately the man was mand took up his bed, and
walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.
Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the
sabbath day: itwful for thee to carry thy bed.

5:11 He answered them, He that made m, the same said unto me,
Take up thy bed, and walk.

5:12 Then asked t, What man is that which said unto thee, Take
up thy bed, and walk?  5 that was healed wist not who it
was: for Jesus had conveyed himself atitude being in that
place.

5:14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the t, and said unto him,
Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a ing come unto
thee.

5:15 The man departed, and told the Jews that it , which had
made him whole.

5:16 And therefore did the Jews persecutend sought to slay
him, because he had done these things on the sabbath7 But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.

5:ore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not
only had brokbath, but said also that God was his Father,
making himself equal with9 Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say
unto yon can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the
Father do: for whasoever he doeth, these also doeth the Son
likewise.

5:20 For the Faththe Son, and sheweth him all things that
himself doeth: and he will sheater works than these, that ye
may marvel.

5:21 For as the Father rahe dead, and quickeneth them; even
so the Son quickeneth whom he will.For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment
unto th23 That all men should honour the Son, even as they
honour the Father.t honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent
him.
ly, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and
believeth on ent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not
come into condemnation; bsed from death unto life.

5:25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hoing, and now is,
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God:that
hear shall live.

5:26 For as the Father hath life in himself; sogiven to the
Son to have life in himself; 5:27 And hath given him authxecute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.

5:28 Marvel not a the hour is coming, in the which all that
are in the graves shall hea, 5:29 And shall come forth;
they that have done good, unto the resurrife; and they that
have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.n self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my
judgment is just; becausther which hath sent me.

5:31 If I bear witness of myself, my witness32 There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the
wiof me is true.

5:33 Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the t4 But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say,
that y saved.

5:35 He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willinason to rejoice in his light.

5:36 But I have greater witness than thfor the works which
the Father hath given me to finish, the same works, bear
witness of me, that the Father hath sent me.

5:37 And the Fath which hath sent me, hath borne witness of
me.

Ye have neither heard t any time, nor seen his shape.

5:38 And ye have not his word abidingor whom he hath sent,
him ye believe not.

5:39 Search the scriptures;em ye think ye have eternal life:
and they are they which testify of mnd ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.

5:41 I receive noom men.

5:42 But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. come in my Father’s name, and ye receive me not: if another
shall cown name, him ye will receive.

5:44 How can ye believe, which receivenother, and seek
not the honour that cometh from God only?  5:45 Do no that I
will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you,s, in whom ye trust.

5:46 For had ye believed Moses, ye would have bee; for he
wrote of me.

5:47 But if ye believe not his writings, how s believe my
words?  6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of hich is the sea of Tiberias.

6:2 And a great multitude followed him, y saw his miracles
which he did on them that were diseased.

6:3 And Jup into a mountain, and there he sat with his
disciples.

6:4 And the a feast of the Jews, was nigh.

6:5 When Jesus then lifted up his eyes great company come
unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buat these
may eat?  6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he himself k would do.

6:7 Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread iicient for them, that every one of them may take a little.

6:8 One ofples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, saith unto
him, 6:9 There is a which hath five barley loaves, and two
small fishes: but what are theymany?  6:10 And Jesus said,
Make the men sit down. Now there was much he place. So the
men sat down, in number about five thousand.

6:11 Anook the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he
distributed to the dind the disciples to them that were set
down; and likewise of the fisheas they would.

6:12 When they were filled, he said unto his disciples the
fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.

6:13 Therefore they them together, and filled twelve baskets
with the fragments of the filoaves, which remained over and
above unto them that had eaten.

6:14  men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did,
said, This is of t prophet that should come into the world.

6:15 When Jesus therefore that they would come and take him
by force, to make him a king, he dep into a mountain
himself alone.

6:16 And when even was now come, his went down unto the sea,
6:17 And entered into a ship, and went over thd Capernaum.
And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.

6:1ea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.

6:19 So when they had rfive and twenty or thirty furlongs,
they see Jesus walking on the sea,g nigh unto the ship: and
they were afraid.

6:20 But he saith unto th be not afraid.

6:21 Then they willingly received him into the ship: ately
the ship was at the land whither they went.

6:22 The day followthe people which stood on the other side
of the sea saw that there wasr boat there, save that one
whereinto his disciples were entered, and  went not with his
disciples into the boat, but that his disciples wer alone;
6:23 (Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto twhere they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:) 6:24
eople therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his
disciples, took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for
Jesus.

6:25 And whenound him on the other side of the sea, they
said unto him, Rabbi, whenou hither?  6:26 Jesus answered
them and said, Verily, verily, I say ue seek me, not because
ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of , and were
filled.

6:27 Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but at which
endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall giu: for him hath God the Father sealed.

6:28 Then said they unto him,  we do, that we might work the
works of God?  6:29 Jesus answered and hem, This is the
work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath senty said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that
we may seieve thee? what dost thou work?  6:31 Our fathers
did eat manna in the it is written, He gave them bread from
heaven to eat.

6:32 Then Jesuo them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses
gave you not that bread n; but my Father giveth you the true
bread from heaven.

6:33 For the od is he which cometh down from heaven, and
giveth life unto the world34 Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.

6:35 Aaid unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh
to me shall nevend he that believeth on me shall never
thirst.

6:36 But I said unto yye also have seen me, and believe not.

6:37 All that the Father givethall come to me; and him that
cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the
will of him th.

6:39 And this is the Father’s will which hath sent me, that of al hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up
again at ay.

6:40 And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one whihe Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I
will raat the last day.

6:41 The Jews then murmured at him, because he said,bread
which came down from heaven.

6:42 And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father
and mother we know? how is it thehat he saith, I came down from
heaven?  6:43 Jesus therefore answered to them, Murmur not
among yourselves.

6:44 No man can come to me, excher which hath sent me draw
him: and I will raise him up at the last dIt is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of
God.

En therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father,
cometh un6 Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God,
he hhe Father.

6:47 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on rlasting life.

6:48 I am that bread of life.

6:49 Your fathers did en the wilderness, and are dead.

6:50 This is the bread which cometh deaven, that a man may
eat thereof, and not die.

6:51 I am the living h came down from heaven: if any man eat
of this bread, he shall live fnd the bread that I will give
is my flesh, which I will give for the lworld.

6:52 The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How cn give us his flesh to eat?  6:53 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily,
vay unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and
drink his  have no life in you.

6:54 Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my bloternal life;
and I will raise him up at the last day.

6:55 For my flet indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.

6:56 He that eateth my flesh,eth my blood, dwelleth in me,
and I in him.

6:57 As the living Fatherme, and I live by the Father: so
he that eateth me, even he shall live:58 This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your
fathert manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread
shall live for eveThese things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.

6:6efore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said,
This is an harwho can hear it?  6:61 When Jesus knew in
himself that his disciples m it, he said unto them, Doth
this offend you?  6:62 What and if ye shaSon of man ascend
up where he was before?  6:63 It is the spirit that ; the
flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they aand they are life.

6:64 But there are some of you that believe not. Fnew from
the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should.

6:65 And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come uept it were given unto him of my Father.

6:66 From that time many of les went back, and walked no
more with him.

6:67 Then said Jesus untoe, Will ye also go away?  6:68 Then
Simon Peter answered him, Lord, tol we go? thou hast the
words of eternal life.

6:69 And we believe andthat thou art that Christ, the Son of
the living God.

6:70 Jesus answHave not I chosen you twelve, and one of you
is a devil?  6:71 He spak Iscariot the son of Simon: for he
it was that should betray him, beinhe twelve.

7:1 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he woualk
in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.

7:2 Now the Jew’ of tabernacles was at hand.

7:3 His brethren therefore said unto himnce, and go into
Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works thast.

7:4 For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he hieth to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to
the w For neither did his brethren believe in him.

7:6 Then Jesus said unt time is not yet come: but your time
is alway ready.

7:7 The world cayou; but me it hateth, because I testify of
it, that the works thereof
7:8 Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for myot yet full come.

7:9 When he had said these words unto them, he abodilee.

7:10 But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up u
feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.

7:11 Then the Jews soug the feast, and said, Where is he?
7:12 And there was much murmuring aople concerning him: for
some said, He is a good man: others said, Nayeceiveth the
people.

7:13 Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fears.

7:14 Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the templght.

7:15 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letternever learned?  7:16 Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine
is not his that sent me.

7:17 If any man will do his will, he shall know of it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.

7:18 He that speaketh ofeeketh his own glory: but he that
seeketh his glory that sent him, theue, and no
unrighteousness is in him.

7:19 Did not Moses give you theyet none of you keepeth the
law?  Why go ye about to kill me?  7:20 Thswered and said,
Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?  7:2swered
and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel.

7herefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of
Moses, but ers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a
man.

7:23 If a man on thay receive circumcision, that the law of
Moses should not be broken; ay at me, because I have made a
man every whit whole on the sabbath dayudge not according to
the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.

7id some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they
seek to kill?  lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing
unto him. Do the rulers d that this is the very Christ?
7:27 Howbeit we know this man whence h when Christ cometh, no
man knoweth whence he is.

7:28 Then cried Jesemple as he taught, saying, Ye both know
me, and ye know whence I am: ot come of myself, but he that
sent me is true, whom ye know not.

7:2ow him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.

7:30 Then they soughtim: but no man laid hands on him,
because his hour was not yet come.

any of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ
cometh, will  miracles than these which this man hath done?
7:32 The Pharisees hear people murmured such things
concerning him; and the Pharisees and theests sent officers
to take him.

7:33 Then said Jesus unto them, Yet ale am I with you, and
then I go unto him that sent me.

7:34 Ye shall d shall not find me: and where I am, thither
ye cannot come.

7:35 The Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we
shall not find himgo unto the dispersed among the Gentiles,
and teach the Gentiles?  7:3nner of saying is this that he
said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not fd where I am, thither
ye cannot come?  7:37 In the last day, that greahe feast,
Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him co, and drink.

7:38 He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath saidhis
belly shall flow rivers of living water.

7:39 (But this spake he pirit, which they that believe on him
should receive: for the Holy Ghoyet given; because that
Jesus was not yet glorified.)  7:40 Many of ththerefore, when
they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the P7:41 Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ comelilee?  7:42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh
of the seid, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David
was?  7:43 So there ion among the people because of him.

7:44 And some of them would have; but no man laid hands on
him.

7:45 Then came the officers to the chs and Pharisees; and
they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him? officers
answered, Never man spake like this man.

7:47 Then answeredharisees, Are ye also deceived?  7:48
Have any of the rulers or of thes believed on him?  7:49 But
this people who knoweth not the law are c50 Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being
o,) 7:51 Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and
know what 7:52 They answered and said unto him, Art thou
also of Galilee?  Searck: for out of Galilee ariseth no
prophet.

7:53 And every man went unthouse.

8:1 Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.

8:2 And early in thee came again into the temple, and all
the people came unto him; and he and taught them.

8:3 And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him n in
adultery; and when they had set her in the midst, 8:4 They say unaster, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.

8:5 Now Moslaw commanded us, that such should be stoned: but
what sayest thou?  8ey said, tempting him, that they might
have to accuse him. But Jesus sn, and with his finger wrote
on the ground, as though he heard them no when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said
unto that is without sin among you, let him first cast a
stone at her.

8:8 e stooped down, and wrote on the ground.

8:9 And they which heard it,victed by their own conscience,
went out one by one, beginning at the en unto the last: and
Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in 
8:10 When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man
condemned thehe said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her,
Neither do I condemn tnd sin no more.

8:12 Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am tof the
world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but sha light of life.

8:13 The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bear of
thyself; thy record is not true.

8:14 Jesus answered and said untough I bear record of
myself, yet my record is true: for I know whenceand whither I
go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go.
dge after the flesh; I judge no man.

8:16 And yet if I judge, my judgue: for I am not alone, but
I and the Father that sent me.

8:17 It isen in your law, that the testimony of two men is
true.

8:18 I am one witness of myself, and the Father that sent me
beareth witness of me.
 said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye
neither kr my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have
known my Father also.
e words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the
temple: and n hands on him; for his hour was not yet come.

8:21 Then said Jesus aghem, I go my way, and ye shall seek
me, and shall die in your sins: wh ye cannot come.

8:22 Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? becauh,
Whither I go, ye cannot come.

8:23 And he said unto them, Ye are fth; I am from above: ye
are of this world; I am not of this world.

8: therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if
ye believe I am he, ye shall die in your sins.

8:25 Then said they unto him, Wh? And Jesus saith unto them,
Even the same that I said unto you from tg.

8:26 I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that serue; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard
of him.
 understood not that he spake to them of the Father.

8:28 Then said Jthem, When ye have lifted up the Son of man,
then shall ye know that Id that I do nothing of myself; but
as my Father hath taught me, I speahings.

8:29 And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left se things that please him.

8:30 As he spake these words, many believech believed on him, If ye
continue in my word, then are ye my disciple, and the truth shall make you free.

8:33 They answered him, We be Abs seed, and were never in
bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shathem, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever
committeth sin is the  sin.

8:35 And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but theth ever.

8:36 If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be f37 I know that ye are Abraham’s seed; but ye seek to kill me,
becaus hath no place in you.

8:38 I speak that which I have seen with my Fae do that
which ye have seen with your father.

8:39 They answered andhim, Abraham is our father. Jesus
saith unto them, If ye were Abrahamen, ye would do the works
of Abraham.

8:40 But now ye seek to kill mehat hath told you the truth,
which I have heard of God: this did not A:41 Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not
bnication; we have one Father, even God.

8:42 Jesus said unto them, Ifyour Father, ye would love me:
for I proceeded forth and came from Godame I of myself, but
he sent me.

8:43 Why do ye not understand my spe ye cannot hear
my word.

8:44 Ye are of your father the devil, and ths of your father ye
will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and in the
truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a liaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.

8:45 And bell you the truth, ye believe me not.

8:46 Which of you convinceth me d if I say the truth, why do
ye not believe me?  8:47 He that is of GoGod’s words: ye
therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God.
 answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that
thou art an, and hast a devil?  8:49 Jesus answered, I have
not a devil; but I hther, and ye do dishonour me.

8:50 And I seek not mine own glory: thehat seeketh and
judgeth.

8:51 Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a ma saying, he shall
never see death.

8:52 Then said the Jews unto him, ow that thou hast a devil.

Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thof a man keep my
saying, he shall never taste of death.

8:53 Art thou an our father Abraham, which is dead? and the
prophets are dead: whom  thyself?  8:54 Jesus answered, If
I honour myself, my honour is nothiy Father that honoureth
me; of whom ye say, that he is your God: 8:55  not known
him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, Ia
liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying.

8:56 Your ham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and
was glad.

8:57 Then sas unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old,
and hast thou seen AbrahJesus said unto them, Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham w8:59 Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself,
a of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so
passed by.

9: Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his
birth.

9:2 Aniples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this
man, or his parentst he was born blind?  9:3 Jesus answered,
Neither hath this man sinned parents: but that the works of
God should be made manifest in him.

9work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the
night cometh,an can work.

9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the 6 When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of
theand he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay,
9:7 And said Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by
interpretation, Sent.) Heay therefore, and washed, and came
seeing.

9:8 The neighbours therefoey which before had seen him that
he was blind, said, Is not this he tnd begged?  9:9 Some
said, This is he: others said, He is like him: bu I am he.

9:10 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes open
He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and
anoines, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and
wash: and I went a and I received sight.

9:12 Then said they unto him, Where is he? He w not.

9:13 They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blinnd it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened
his eyeThen again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his
sight.to them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed,
and do see.

9:16 Taid some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God,
because he keepeth bath day. Others said, How can a man
that is a sinner do such miraclesere was a division among
them.

9:17 They say unto the blind man against thou of him, that
he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophBut the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been
blind, ad his sight, until they called the parents of him
that had received hi9:19 And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was
borw then doth he now see?  9:20 His parents answered them
and said, We kis is our son, and that he was born blind:
9:21 But by what means he nwe know not; or who hath opened
his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ae shall speak for
himself.

9:22 These words spake his parents, becaused the Jews: for
the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confe was
Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.

9:23 Therefore sents, He is of age; ask him.

9:24 Then again called they the man thatd, and said unto him,
Give God the praise: we know that this man is a 9:25 He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not:
o know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.

9:26 Then said they to hhat did he to thee? how opened he
thine eyes?  9:27 He answered them,  you already, and ye
did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? wso be his
disciples?  9:28 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art he are Moses’ disciples.

9:29 We know that God spake unto Moses: as llow, we know
not from whence he is.

9:30 The man answered and said u Why herein is a marvellous
thing, that ye know not from whence he is,e hath opened mine
eyes.

9:31 Now we know that God heareth not sinnerny man be a
worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.

9:e world began was it not heard that any man opened the
eyes of one thablind.

9:33 If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.

9:34 Tred and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in
sins, and dost tho? And they cast him out.

9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out;e had found
him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God
answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?  9:3s said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that
talketh wi
9:38 And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.

9:39 And J For judgment I am come into this world, that they
which see not might that they which see might be made blind.

9:40 And some of the Phariswere with him heard these words,
and said unto him, Are we blind also?sus said unto them, If
ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now y see;
therefore your sin remaineth.

10:1 Verily, verily, I say unto yat entereth not by the door
into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some o the same is a
thief and a robber.

10:2 But he that entereth in by thhe shepherd of the sheep.

10:3 To him the porter openeth; and the shes voice: and he
calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.

when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them,
and the shehim: for they know his voice.

10:5 And a stranger will they not folloll flee from him: for
they know not the voice of strangers.

10:6 Thispake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what
things they were whke unto them.

10:7 Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, Iyou,
I am the door of the sheep.

10:8 All that ever came before me arand robbers: but the
sheep did not hear them.

10:9 I am the door: by man enter in, he shall be saved, and
shall go in and out, and find pas:10 The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to
destrome that they might have life, and that they might have
it more abundan11 I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for
the s:12 But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the
shot, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and
fleeth: and the eth them, and scattereth the sheep.

10:13 The hireling fleeth, becaus hireling, and careth not
for the sheep.

10:14 I am the good shepherdw my sheep, and am known of mine.

10:15 As the Father knoweth me, eveI the Father: and I lay
down my life for the sheep.

10:16 And other sve, which are not of this fold: them also I
must bring, and they shalloice; and there shall be one fold,
and one shepherd.

10:17 Therefore ather love me, because I lay down my life,
that I might take it again. man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have
power to l, and I have power to take it again. This
commandment have I received her.

10:19 There was a division therefore again among the Jews for thgs.

10:20 And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad; why hea  10:21 Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a
devil.il open the eyes of the blind?  10:22 And it was at
Jerusalem the feasdedication, and it was winter.

10:23 And Jesus walked in the temple i’s porch.

10:24 Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto hg
dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly.
us answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the works
that I doher’s name, they bear witness of me.

10:26 But ye believe not, beca of my sheep, as I said
unto you.

10:27 My sheep hear my voice, and Ihem, and they follow me:
10:28 And I give unto them eternal life; and  never perish,
neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.

10:29, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man
is able to pluckf my Father’s hand.

10:30 I and my Father are one.

10:31 Then the up stones again to stone him.

10:32 Jesus answered them, Many good wo shewed you from my
Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?  Jews
answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not; but for
 and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God.

10:34 Jesus them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye
are gods?  10:35 If hehem gods, unto whom the word of God
came, and the scripture cannot be 36 Say ye of him, whom
the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the w blasphemest;
because I said, I am the Son of God?  10:37 If I do not of
my Father, believe me not.

10:38 But if I do, though ye believe noeve the works: that
ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in mehim.

10:39 Therefore they sought again to take him: but he escaped ou hand, 10:40 And went away again beyond Jordan into the place
where Jot baptized; and there he abode.

10:41 And many resorted unto him, andn did no miracle: but
all things that John spake of this man were trued many believed on him there.

11:1 Now a certain man was sick, named  Bethany, the town
of Mary and her sister Martha.

11:2 (It was that Manointed the Lord with ointment, and
wiped his feet with her hair, who Lazarus was sick.)  11:3
Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying,ld, he whom
thou lovest is sick.

11:4 When Jesus heard that, he said,ness is not unto death,
but for the glory of God, that the Son of God lorified
thereby.

11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and La:6 When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days
stisame place where he was.

11:7 Then after that saith he to his disciplgo into Judaea
again.

11:8 His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jesought to
stone thee; and goest thou thither again?  11:9 Jesus answerere not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he
stumblbecause he seeth the light of this world.

11:10 But if a man walk in he stumbleth, because there is
no light in him.

11:11 These things saafter that he saith unto them, Our
friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, awake him out of sleep.

11:12 Then said his disciples, Lord, if he slall do well.

11:13 Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thoughtad
spoken of taking of rest in sleep.

11:14 Then said Jesus unto themLazarus is dead.

11:15 And I am glad for your sakes that I was not the intent
ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.

11:16 Then s, which is called Didymus, unto his
fellowdisciples, Let us also go,  die with him.

11:17 Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain e
four days already.

11:18 Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, abouturlongs off:
11:19 And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to co
concerning their brother.

11:20 Then Martha, as soon as she heard thas coming, went
and met him: but Mary sat still in the house.

11:21 Tartha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my
brother had not diBut I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God
will ghee.

11:23 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.

11:24ith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the
resurrection at t.

11:25 Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he
eth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: 11:26
And whosoeverd believeth in me shall never die. Believest
thou this?  11:27 She saim, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou
art the Christ, the Son of God, whiccome into the world.

11:28 And when she had so said, she went her wayed Mary her
sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth f11:29 As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him.ow Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place
where Mim.

11:31 The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforten they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out,
followed her,e goeth unto the grave to weep there.

11:32 Then when Mary was come wus was, and saw him, she fell
down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, hadst been here, my
brother had not died.

11:33 When Jesus thereforeeeping, and the Jews also weeping
which came with her, he groaned in t and was troubled.

11:34 And said, Where have ye laid him? They said Lord, come
and see.

11:35 Jesus wept.

11:36 Then said the Jews, Beho loved him!  11:37 And some of
them said, Could not this man, which opes of the blind,
have caused that even this man should not have died? us
therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a
c stone lay upon it.

11:39 Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, of him
that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh:h been dead four days.

11:40 Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thf thou
wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?  11:41 Tok away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And
Jesus liis eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou
hast heard me.

11:4 that thou hearest me always: but because of the
people which stand by, that they may believe that thou hast
sent me.

11:43 And when he thun, he cried with a loud voice,
Lazarus, come forth.

11:44 And he thatcame forth, bound hand and foot with
graveclothes: and his face was boith a napkin. Jesus saith
unto them, Loose him, and let him go.

11:45of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the
things which Jesus di on him.

11:46 But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and
what things Jesus had done.

11:47 Then gathered the chief priests anrisees a council, and
said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracl If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and the
Romanse and take away both our place and nation.

11:49 And one of them, namas, being the high priest that same
year, said unto them, Ye know noth, 11:50 Nor consider that
it is expedient for us, that one man should  people, and
that the whole nation perish not.

11:51 And this spake hmself: but being high priest that
year, he prophesied that Jesus shoulthat nation; 11:52 And
not for that nation only, but that also he shoutogether in
one the children of God that were scattered abroad.

11:53m that day forth they took counsel together for to put
him to death.

us therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but went
thence unty near to the wilderness, into a city called
Ephraim, and there continis disciples.

11:55 And the Jews’ passover was nigh at hand: and ma of
the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themsel Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they
stoodmple, What think ye, that he will not come to the
feast?  11:57 Now boief priests and the Pharisees had given a
commandment, that, if any ma he were, he should shew it,
that they might take him.

12:1 Then Jesubefore the passover came to Bethany, where
Lazarus was, which had been he raised from the dead.

12:2 There they made him a supper; and Mart but Lazarus was
one of them that sat at the table with him.

12:3 They a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and
anointed the feet and wiped his feet with her hair: and the
house was filled with the os disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son,
which should betray him, 1sold for three
hundred pence, and given to the poor?  12:6 This he saied for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and
bare

12:7 Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying
hpt this.

12:8 For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have no
12:9 Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and
thnot for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might see Lazarus
also, whomsed from the dead.

12:10 But the chief priests consulted that they miarus also
to death; 12:11 Because that by reason of him many of the Jeay, and believed on Jesus.

12:12 On the next day much people that werto the feast, when
they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 12:1nches of
palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Bng of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord.

12:14 And Jesus, whd found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is
written, 12:15 Fear not, daSion: behold, thy King cometh,
sitting on an ass’s colt.

12:16 Thesnderstood not his disciples at the first: but when
Jesus was glorifiedembered they that these things were
written of him, and that they had  things unto him.

12:17 The people therefore that was with him when hLazarus
out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record.

this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that
he had doacle.

12:19 The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive yrevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him.

12:20 And there in Greeks among them that came up to worship
at the feast: 12:21 The sherefore to Philip, which was of
Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired himir, we would see
Jesus.

12:22 Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and a and Philip
tell Jesus.

12:23 And Jesus answered them, saying, The ho that the Son
of man should be glorified.

12:24 Verily, verily, I sayxcept a corn of wheat fall into
the ground and die, it abideth alone: die, it bringeth forth
much fruit.

12:25 He that loveth his life shal and he that hateth his
life in this world shall keep it unto life ete26 If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there
shallervant be: if any man serve me, him will my Father
honour.

12:27 Now  troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me
from this hour: but fuse came I unto this hour.

12:28 Father, glorify thy name. Then came ice from heaven,
saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it12:29 The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it
 others said, An angel spake to him.

12:30 Jesus answered and said, Tcame not because of me, but
for your sakes.

12:31 Now is the judgmentorld: now shall the prince of this
world be cast out.

12:32 And I, ifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto
me.

12:33 This he said,ng what death he should die.

12:34 The people answered him, We have hf the law that
Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son o be
lifted up? who is this Son of man?  12:35 Then Jesus said unto thelittle while is the light with you.

Walk while ye have the light, les come upon you: for he that
walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he
12:36 While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the
cf light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did
hide himself 

12:37 But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they
ot on him: 12:38 That the saying of Esaias the prophet might
be fulfil he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and
to whom hath the arn revealed?  12:39 Therefore they
could not believe, because that Esaiain, 12:40 He hath
blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; that d not see
with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be cond I should heal them.

12:41 These things said Esaias, when he saw hisd spake of
him.

12:42 Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many b him;
but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they put out of the synagogue: 12:43 For they loved the praise of
men moree praise of God.

12:44 Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, not on
me, but on him that sent me.

12:45 And he that seeth me seethent me.

12:46 I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believshould not abide in darkness.

12:47 And if any man hear my words, andot, I judge him not:
for I came not to judge the world, but to save th2:48 He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that
jm: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in
the last d For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me,
he gavmandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.

12:50 And I knocommandment is life everlasting: whatsoever
I speak therefore, even as said unto me, so I speak.

13:1 Now before the feast of the passover,knew that his
hour was come that he should depart out of this world unher,
having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto 13:2 And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart
oiot, Simon’s son, to betray him; 13:3 Jesus knowing that
the Father l things into his hands, and that he was come
from God, and went to Go riseth from supper, and laid aside
his garments; and took a towel, animself.

13:5 After that he poureth water into a bason, and began to wiples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was
girdedn cometh he to Simon Peter: and Peter saith unto him, Lord,
dost thou et?  13:7 Jesus answered and said unto him, What I
do thou knowest nott thou shalt know hereafter.

13:8 Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt nemy feet. Jesus
answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part wit Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my
handsad.

13:10 Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wt, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all.

13:11 For o should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not
all clean.

13:12 S had washed their feet, and had taken his garments,
and was set down aid unto them, Know ye what I have done to
you?  13:13 Ye call me Maste: and ye say well; for so I am.

13:14 If I then, your Lord and Mastered your feet; ye also
ought to wash one another’s feet.

13:15 For I you an example, that ye should do as I have
done to you.

13:16 Veril I say unto you, The servant is not greater than
his lord; neither he nt greater than he that sent him.

13:17 If ye know these things, happf ye do them.

13:18 I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosenthe
scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me hath liftheel against me.

13:19 Now I tell you before it come, that, when it ipass, ye
may believe that I am he.

13:20 Verily, verily, I say unto yt receiveth whomsoever I
send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me rhim that sent
me.

13:21 When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in d
testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of youay me.

13:22 Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whe.

13:23 Now there was leaning on Jesus’ bosom one of his disciplesus loved.

13:24 Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he shouldt
should be of whom he spake.

13:25 He then lying on Jesus’ breast  him, Lord, who is it?
13:26 Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shallop, when I
have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it scariot, the son of Simon.

13:27 And after the sop Satan entered intosaid Jesus unto
him, That thou doest, do quickly.

13:28 Now no man at knew for what intent he spake this unto
him.

13:29 For some of them because Judas had the bag, that Jesus
had said unto him, Buy those thi we have need of against the
feast; or, that he should give something r.

13:30 He then having received the sop went immediately out: and it

13:31 Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son offied, and God is glorified in him.

13:32 If God be glorified in him, also glorify him in
himself, and shall straightway glorify him.

13:33hildren, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek
me: and as I the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now
I say to you.

13:34 A dment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as
I have loved you, so love one another.

13:35 By this shall all men know that ye are my  if ye have
love one to another.

13:36 Simon Peter said unto him, Lorr goest thou? Jesus
answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow t thou
shalt follow me afterwards.

13:37 Peter said unto him, Lord, w I follow thee now? I will
lay down my life for thy sake.

13:38 Jesushim, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake?
Verily, verily, I say une cock shall not crow, till thou
hast denied me thrice.

14:1 Let not be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also
in me.

14:2 In my Father are many mansions: if it were not so, I
would have told you. I go to place for you.

14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will cand
receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

1ither I go ye know, and the way ye know.

14:5 Thomas saith unto him, now not whither thou goest; and
how can we know the way?  14:6 Jesus s, I am the way, the
truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Fathere.

14:7 If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and forth ye know him, and have seen him.

14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lorthe Father, and it sufficeth
us.

14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I be time with you, and yet
hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath sh seen the
Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?  14:1t
thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me?  the words
t unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that
dwelleth in me, he works.

14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in  believe me for the very works’ sake.

14:12 Verily, verily, I say u that believeth on me, the
works that I do shall he do also; and greatan these shall
he do; because I go unto my Father.

14:13 And whatsoev ask in my name, that will I do, that the
Father may be glorified in t4:14 If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.

14:15 If ye eep my commandments.

14:16 And I will pray the Father, and he shall gother
Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; 14:17 Even the Sruth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not,
neitherim: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and
shall be in you.

1ill not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.

14:19 Yet a little the world seeth me no more; but ye see
me: because I live, ye shall l
14:20 At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me,ou.

14:21 He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is the: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I
will love ll manifest myself to him.

14:22 Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, s it that thou
wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world? s
answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words:her will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our
abode with  He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which
ye hine, but the Father’s which sent me.

14:25 These things have I spoku, being yet present with you.

14:26 But the Comforter, which is the t, whom the Father will
send in my name, he shall teach you all thingsg all things
to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.

14eave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the
world giveth, giveu. Let not your heart be troubled, neither
let it be afraid.

14:28 Ye how I said unto you, I go away, and come again
unto you. If ye loved ld rejoice, because I said, I go unto
the Father: for my Father is gre.

14:29 And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it pass, ye might believe.

14:30 Hereafter I will not talk much with yoprince of this
world cometh, and hath nothing in me.

14:31 But that tay know that I love the Father; and as the
Father gave me commandment, do. Arise, let us go hence.

15:1 I am the true vine, and my Father iandman.

15:2 Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring
forth mor5:3 Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you.

1n me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself, except  the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide
in me.

15:5 I am the vine, branches: He that abideth in me, and I
in him, the same bringeth fortit: for without me ye can do
nothing.

15:6 If a man abide not in me, forth as a branch, and is
withered; and men gather them, and cast themfire, and they
are burned.

15:7 If ye abide in me, and my words abidee shall ask what
ye will, and it shall be done unto you.

15:8 Herein her glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall
ye be my disciples.

e Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in
my love.

ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I
have kep’s commandments, and abide in his love.

15:11 These things have I s you, that my joy might remain in
you, and that your joy might be fullis is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have
loved you.

ter love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life
for his f:14 Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.

15:15 Hence you not servants; for the servant knoweth not
what his lord doeth: bualled you friends; for all things
that I have heard of my Father I havwn unto you.

15:16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ou,
that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit shoul that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may
give it:17 These things I command you, that ye love one another.

15:18 If thte you, ye know that it hated me before it hated
you.

15:19 If ye werorld, the world would love his own: but
because ye are not of the worlave chosen you out of the
world, therefore the world hateth you.

15:2the word that I said unto you, The servant is not
greater than his lory have persecuted me, they will also
persecute you; if they have kept they will keep yours also.

15:21 But all these things will they do un my name’s sake,
because they know not him that sent me.

15:22 If Iome and spoken unto them, they had not had sin:
but now they have no cheir sin.

15:23 He that hateth me hateth my Father also.

15:24 If I ne among them the works which none other man did,
they had not had sinhave they both seen and hated both me
and my Father.

15:25 But this cass, that the word might be fulfilled that
is written in their law, Th without a cause.

15:26 But when the Comforter is come, whom I will sou from
the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the shall testify of me: 15:27 And ye also shall bear witness,
because yn with me from the beginning.

16:1 These things have I spoken unto yoe should not be
offended.

16:2 They shall put you out of the synagogue time cometh,
that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God
16:3 And these things will they do unto you, because they have not
knther, nor me.

16:4 But these things have I told you, that when the tiome,
ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said u at the beginning, because I was with you.

16:5 But now I go my way t sent me; and none of you asketh
me, Whither goest thou?  16:6 But beave said these things
unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart.

16:7 Ns I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I
go away: for ifay, the Comforter will not come unto you;
but if I depart, I will sendyou.

16:8 And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and usness, and of judgment: 16:9 Of sin, because they believe not
on me; ighteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see
me no more; 16:11 , because the prince of this world is
judged.

16:12 I have yet many ty unto you, but ye cannot bear them
now.

16:13 Howbeit when he, the Sth, is come, he will guide you
into all truth: for he shall not speak ; but whatsoever he
shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew to come.

16:14 He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and it unto you.

16:15 All things that the Father hath are mine: therefohat
he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.

16:16 A littlel not see me: and again, a little
while, and ye shall see me, because isciples among themselves, What is this
that he saith unto us, A little shall not see me: and
again, a little while, and ye shall see me: anr?  16:18 They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A
little whnnot tell what he saith.

16:19 Now Jesus knew that they were desirousm, and said unto
them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see
mVerily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and
lament, but thel rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but
your sorrow shall be turned 
16:21 A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no
more thefor joy that a man is born into the world.

16:22 And ye now thereforew: but I will see you again, and
your heart shall rejoice, and your joketh from you.

16:23 And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily,say
unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will g.

16:24 Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall
at your joy may be full.

16:25 These things have I spoken unto you inbut the time
cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, l
shew you plainly of the Father.

16:26 At that day ye shall ask in m I say not unto you,
that I will pray the Father for you: 16:27 For thimself
loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I rom God.

16:28 I came forth from the Father, and am come into the worI leave the world, and go to the Father.

16:29 His disciples said unt now speakest thou plainly, and
speakest no proverb.

16:30 Now are wehou knowest all things, and needest not
that any man should ask thee:  believe that thou camest
forth from God.

16:31 Jesus answered them, believe?  16:32 Behold, the hour
cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shatered, every man to his
own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am nocause the
Father is with me.

16:33 These things I have spoken unto yoe ye might have
peace.

In the world ye shall have tribulation: but bed cheer; I have
overcome the world.

17:1 These words spake Jesus, andhis eyes to heaven, and
said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy So Son also may
glorify thee: 17:2 As thou hast given him power over allat
he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.

17: is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true
God, and Jes whom thou hast sent.

17:4 I have glorified thee on the earth: I havethe work
which thou gavest me to do.

17:5 And now, O Father, glorify with thine own self with the
glory which I had with thee before the wo17:6 I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out
ld: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have
kept thy w7 Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me
ar

17:8 For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and
 received them, and have known surely that I came out from
thee, and tbelieved that thou didst send me.

17:9 I pray for them: I pray not fod, but for them which
thou hast given me; for they are thine.

17:10 Ae are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified
in them.

17:11 Anm no more in the world, but these are in the world,
and I come to theether, keep through thine own name those
whom thou hast given me, that e one, as we are.

17:12 While I was with them in the world, I kept th name:
those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lostson of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

17:13 And noo thee; and these things I speak in the world,
that they might have mylled in themselves.

17:14 I have given them thy word; and the world hthem,
because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but
that thot keep them from the evil.

17:16 They are not of the world, even as I the world.

17:17 Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.s thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent
them into

17:19 And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might beed through the truth.

17:20 Neither pray I for these alone, but for twhich shall
believe on me through their word; 17:21 That they all may 
thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in
he world may believe that thou hast sent me.

17:22 And the glory whicst me I have given them; that they
may be one, even as we are one: 17:em, and thou in me, that
they may be made perfect in one; and that the know that thou
hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved  Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with
me whhat they may behold my glory, which thou hast given
me: for thou lovedore the foundation of the world.

17:25 O righteous Father, the world nown thee: but I have
known thee, and these have known that thou hast 17:26 And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it:
thae wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in
them.

18:1 Whhad spoken these words, he went forth with his
disciples over the broowhere was a garden, into the which he
entered, and his disciples.

18:s also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus
ofttimes resorteth his disciples.

18:3 Judas then, having received a band of men and from the
chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns andnd weapons.

18:4 Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should comewent forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye?  18:5 They answered him,Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he.

And Judas also, which betraod with them.

18:6 As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, thckward, and fell to the ground.

18:7 Then asked he them again, Whom sAnd they said, Jesus of
Nazareth.

18:8 Jesus answered, I have told yo he: if therefore ye
seek me, let these go their way: 18:9 That the sabe
fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost:10 Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high
priestt, and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was
Malchus.

18:11Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath:
the cup which my Fgiven me, shall I not drink it?  18:12
Then the band and the captain a of the Jews took Jesus, and
bound him, 18:13 And led him away to Annaor he was father in
law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that sa8:14 Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was
hat one man should die for the people.

18:15 And Simon Peter followedd so did another disciple:
that disciple was known unto the high priest in with Jesus
into the palace of the high priest.

18:16 But Peter se door without. Then went out that other
disciple, which was known untpriest, and spake unto her
that kept the door, and brought in Peter.

 saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art not
thou also onean’s disciples? He saith, I am not.

18:18 And the servants and offi there, who had made a fire
of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed: and Peter stood
with them, and warmed himself.

18:19 The high priesked Jesus of his disciples, and of his
doctrine.

18:20 Jesus answeredake openly to the world; I ever taught
in the synagogue, and in the teher the Jews always resort;
and in secret have I said nothing.

18:21  thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said
unto them: behold,what I said.

18:22 And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers wd by
struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou thst so?  18:23 Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear
witness l: but if well, why smitest thou me?  18:24 Now
Annas had sent him bouaphas the high priest.

18:25 And Simon Peter stood and warmed himselfd therefore
unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He deniesaid, I am not.

18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, being hwhose
ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with  Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew.

18:28 Then lsus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and
it was early; and thees went not into the judgment hall,
lest they should be defiled; but tght eat the passover.

18:29 Pilate then went out unto them, and said,sation bring
ye against this man?  18:30 They answered and said unto hwere not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.

 said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according
to your lws therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us
to put any man to 32 That the saying of Jesus might be
fulfilled, which he spake, signifeath he should die.

18:33 Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall  called
Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews?  18:3wered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it
th  18:35 Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and
the chief pr delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?
18:36 Jesus answered, Mys not of this world: if my kingdom
were of this world, then would my sght, that I should not be
delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdomence.

18:37 Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesd, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and
for this  I into the world, that I should bear witness unto
the truth. Every on of the truth heareth my voice.

18:38 Pilate saith unto him, What is d when he had said this,
he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unfind in him no
fault at all.

18:39 But ye have a custom, that I shoulnto you one at the
passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you of the
Jews?  18:40 Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, as. Now Barabbas was a robber.

19:1 Then Pilate therefore took Jesus,ged him.

19:2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it , and they put on him a purple robe, 19:3 And said, Hail, King of
the d they smote him with their hands.

19:4 Pilate therefore went forth aaith unto them, Behold, I
bring him forth to you, that ye may know thao fault in him.

19:5 Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thore
purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man!  19:6 When
 priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out,
saying, Crucicify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him,
and crucify him: for I lt in him.

19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law 
die, because he made himself the Son of God.

19:8 When Pilate therefthat saying, he was the more afraid;
19:9 And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus,
Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.

19:10 Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest
thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release
thee?  19:11 Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all
against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that
delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.

19:12 And from thenceflate sought to release him: but the Jews
cried out, saying, If thou le go, thou art not Caesar’s
friend: whosoever maketh himself a king sgainst Caesar.

19:13 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brouforth,
and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called thebut in the Hebrew, Gabbatha.

19:14 And it was the preparation of the and about the sixth
hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your KingBut they
cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him.

Pilateo them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests
answered, We havet Caesar.

19:16 Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucithey took Jesus, and led him away.

19:17 And he bearing his cross weno a place called the
place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew G9:18 Where
they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side esus in the midst.

19:19 And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the d the
writing was JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS.

19:20 This  read many of the Jews: for the place where Jesus
was crucified was ni city: and it was written in Hebrew, and
Greek, and Latin.

19:21 Thenchief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not,
The King of the Jews; he said, I am King of the Jews.

19:22 Pilate answered, What I have wrve written.

19:23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, tgarments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also his
che coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.

19:24 They sore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but
cast lots for it, whose e: that the scripture might be
fulfilled, which saith, They parted my mong them, and for my
vesture they did cast lots. These things therefoldiers did.

19:25 Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, aher’s sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.

19:26 s therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing
by, whom he loveh unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son!
19:27 Then saith he to the dBehold thy mother! And from that
hour that disciple took her unto his 

19:28 After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplishethe scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst.

19:29 Now there wassel full of vinegar: and they filled a
spunge with vinegar, and put issop, and put it to his mouth.

19:30 When Jesus therefore had receivear, he said, It is
finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the gh1 The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the
bodies remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for that
sabbath day was an besought Pilate that their legs might be
broken, and that they might .

19:32 Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and other which was crucified with him.

19:33 But when they came to Jesusthat he was dead already,
they brake not his legs: 19:34 But one of thrs with a spear
pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood a
19:35 And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and he
hat he saith true, that ye might believe.

19:36 For these things weret the scripture should be
fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be brokennd again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom
they pie38 And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus,
butor fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take
away the body and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore,
and took the body of Jes9 And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus
by n brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred
pound weight.
 took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen clothes
with the sthe manner of the Jews is to bury.

19:41 Now in the place where he wa there was a garden; and
in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was net laid.

19:42 There laid they Jesus therefore because of the Jews’ on
day; for the sepulchre was nigh at hand.

20:1 The first day of theh Mary Magdalene early, when it
was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and stone taken away from
the sepulchre.

20:2 Then she runneth, and cometn Peter, and to the other
disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto thave taken away
the LORD out of the sepulchre, and we know not where tid
him.

20:3 Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, ande sepulchre.

20:4 So they ran both together: and the other disciple dPeter, and came first to the sepulchre.

20:5 And he stooping down, ann, saw the linen clothes
lying; yet went he not in.

20:6 Then cometh r following him, and went into the
sepulchre, and seeth the linen clot:7 And the napkin, that
was about his head, not lying with the linen cut wrapped
together in a place by itself.

20:8 Then went in also thatciple, which came first to the
sepulchre, and he saw, and believed.

2yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again
from the deaden the disciples went away again unto their own home.

20:11 But Mary out at the sepulchre weeping: and as she
wept, she stooped down, and lthe sepulchre, 20:12 And seeth
two angels in white sitting, the one atand the other at the
feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.

20:13 Any unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto
them, Because theyen away my LORD, and I know not where they
have laid him.

20:14 And wad thus said, she turned herself back, and saw
Jesus standing, and kneit was Jesus.

20:15 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whthou?  She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if
borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I
will take him:16 Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto
him which is to say, Master.

20:17 Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; fgo to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my
Father, and your God.

20:18 Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had  that he had spoken these things unto her.

20:19 Then the same day atirst day of the week,
when the doors were shut where the disciples werd for fear
of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith ube unto you.

20:20 And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his his
side.

Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the LORD.

20:21 Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father
hath sent me, evd I you.

20:22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and sahem, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: 20:23 Whose soever sins ye remit,
theyted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are
retained.

20homas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them
when Jesus:25 The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the
LORDaid unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of
the nails, finger into the print of the nails, and thrust
my hand into his side,ot believe.

20:26 And after eight days again his disciples were withis
with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the
msaid, Peace be unto you.

20:27 Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither , and behold my
hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into md be
not faithless, but believing.

20:28 And Thomas answered and said My LORD and my God.

20:29 Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou me, thou
hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet ved.

20:30 And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of hi, which are not written in this book: 20:31 But these are
written, that believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of
God; and that believingave life through his name.

21:1 After these things Jesus shewed himseo the disciples at
the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he him2 There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and
Nathana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other
of his discipleimon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him,
We alsoee. They went forth, and entered into a ship
immediately; and that nigght nothing.

21:4 But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on tbut
the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.

21:5 Then Jesus saith uChildren, have ye any meat? They
answered him, No.

21:6 And he said uast the net on the right side of the
ship, and ye shall find. They case, and now they were not
able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.
efore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is
the Lord.Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his
fisher’s coat unor he was naked,) and did cast himself into
the sea.

21:8 And the oths came in a little ship; (for they were not
far from land, but as it wndred cubits,) dragging the net
with fishes.

21:9 As soon then as thee to land, they saw a fire of coals
there, and fish laid thereon, and 21:10 Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now
caughimon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great
fishes, an d fifty and three: and for all there were so
many, yet was not the net1:12 Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples
dm, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord.

21:13 Jesus then cometth bread, and giveth them, and fish
likewise.

21:14 This is now the tthat Jesus shewed himself to his
disciples, after that he was risen frd.

21:15 So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, ss, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea,
Lord; thou hat I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs.

21:16 He saith to he second time, Simon, son of Jonas,
lovest thou me? He saith unto himd; thou knowest that I love
thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep.

2th unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest
thou me? Peterd because he said unto him the third time,
Lovest thou me? And he saidLord, thou knowest all things;
thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus sam, Feed my sheep.

21:18 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wathou
girdest thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when tho old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall
gird thee,ther thou wouldest not.

21:19 This spake he, signifying by what death glorify God.
And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow mThen Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved
followialso leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord,
which is he that thee?  21:21 Peter seeing him saith to
Jesus, Lord, and what shall thi 21:22 Jesus saith unto him,
If I will that he tarry till I come, whato thee? follow thou
me.

21:23 Then went this saying abroad among the that that
disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He sha but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?
21:24he disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote
these things: ow that his testimony is true.

21:25 And there are also many other th Jesus did, the which,
if they should be written every one, I suppose the world
itself could not contain the books that should be written. Ahe Acts of the Apostles


1:1 The former treatise have I made, O Theophat Jesus
began both to do and teach, 1:2 Until the day in which he wan
up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments untoles whom he had chosen: 1:3 To whom also he shewed himself
alive aftern by many infallible proofs, being seen of them
forty days, and speakithings pertaining to the kingdom of
God: 1:4 And, being assembled togethem, commanded them that
they should not depart from Jerusalem, but we promise of the
Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me.

1:5 Foly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with
the Holy Ghost nys hence.

1:6 When they therefore were come together, they asked of hg,
Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?   said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the
seasons, wather hath put in his own power.

1:8 But ye shall receive power, afte Holy Ghost is come upon
you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both iem, and in all
Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of 

1:9 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was
tnd a cloud received him out of their sight.

1:10 And while they lookey toward heaven as he went up,
behold, two men stood by them in white :11 Which also said,
Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into he same
Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in  as ye have seen him go into heaven.

1:12 Then returned they unto Jerom the mount called Olivet,
which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day’s 
1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room,
wheboth Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and
Thomas, Barth Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon
Zelotes, and Judas the  James.

1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and suppliith the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.

1n those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples,
and said, ( of names together were about an hundred and
twenty,) 1:16 Men and breis scripture must needs have been
fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by tf David spake before
concerning Judas, which was guide to them that to

1:17 For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this
mini8 Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and
fallng, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels
gushed out.

1:1as known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as
that field is their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say,
The field of blood.

1is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be
desolate, and dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another
take.

1:21 Wherefore ofwhich have companied with us all the time
that the Lord Jesus went in ong us, 1:22 Beginning from the
baptism of John, unto that same day thtaken up from us, must
one be ordained to be a witness with us of his .

1:23 And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamand Matthias.

1:24 And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowets
of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen, 1:25 That h part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by
transgressthat he might go to his own place.

1:26 And they gave forth their lotlot fell upon Matthias;
and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
hen the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with
one accordace.

2:2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing , and it filled all the house where they were sitting.

2:3 And there nto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and
it sat upon each of them.hey were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak
with otheras the Spirit gave them utterance.

2:5 And there were dwelling at Jers, devout men, out of
every nation under heaven.

2:6 Now when this waroad, the multitude came together, and
were confounded, because that eeard them speak in his own
language.

2:7 And they were all amazed andd, saying one to another,
Behold, are not all these which speak Galila8 And how hear we
every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?  ans, and
Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in d Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, 2:10 Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in
Egy the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome,
Jews and pros11 Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak
in our tongues the wonde of God.

2:12 And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one, What meaneth this?  2:13 Others mocking said, These men are
full of 2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and
them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem,
be this knu, and hearken to my words: 2:15 For these are
not drunken, as ye suppit is but the third hour of the
day.

2:16 But this is that which was the prophet Joel; 2:17 And
it shall come to pass in the last days, saiwill pour out of
my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daugl
prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shaeams: 2:18 And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will
pour out ins of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy: 2:19 And
I will shew wonders  above, and signs in the earth beneath;
blood, and fire, and vapour of20 The sun shall be turned
into darkness, and the moon into blood, befeat and notable
day of the Lord come: 2:21 And it shall come to pass, ver
shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.

2:22 Ye men ofear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man
approved of God among you by and wonders and signs, which God
did by him in the midst of you, as ys also know: 2:23 Him,
being delivered by the determinate counsel and edge of God,
ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slahom
God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it wssible that he should be holden of it.

2:25 For David speaketh concer foresaw the Lord always
before my face, for he is on my right hand, tld not be
moved: 2:26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue waover also my flesh shall rest in hope: 2:27 Because thou wilt not
leavin hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see
corruption.

2st made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me
full of joy wtenance.

2:29 Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the pDavid, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us
uday.

2:30 Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn w to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh,
he wo Christ to sit on his throne; 2:31 He seeing this
before spake of the n of Christ, that his soul was not left
in hell, neither his flesh didption.

2:32 This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnessTherefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having
received er the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed
forth this, which ye nohear.

2:34 For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith h Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 2:35 Until I
make hy footstool.

2:36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredd
hath made the same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and
Chriow when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and
said und to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren,
what shall we do?  2:er said unto them, Repent, and be
baptized every one of you in the namChrist for the
remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of thet.

2:39 For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to allar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call.

2:40 And with maords did he testify and exhort, saying, Save
yourselves from this untotion.

2:41 Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: anday there were added unto them about three thousand souls.

2:42 And thd stedfastly in the apostles’ doctrine and
fellowship, and in breakid, and in prayers.

2:43 And fear came upon every soul: and many wondes were
done by the apostles.

2:44 And all that believed were togetherll things common;
2:45 And sold their possessions and goods, and parteall men,
as every man had need.

2:46 And they, continuing daily with  in the temple, and
breaking bread from house to house, did eat their gladness
and singleness of heart, 2:47 Praising God, and having favour
the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be
w Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of
prayeng the ninth hour.

3:2 And a certain man lame from his mother’s womied, whom
they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beto ask alms of them that entered into the temple; 3:3 Who seeing Peterabout to go into the temple asked an alms.

3:4 And Peter, fastening hn him with John, said, Look on
us.

3:5 And he gave heed unto them, exo receive something of
them.

3:6 Then Peter said, Silver and gold havbut such as I have
give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazaretnd walk.

3:7 And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: anly his feet and ankle bones received strength.

3:8 And he leaping up  walked, and entered with them into
the temple, walking, and leaping, ing God.

3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God: 3:1knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the
ted they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which
had happene.

3:11 And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all e ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon’s,
greang.

3:12 And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men owhy marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as
though byower or holiness we had made this man to walk?
3:13 The God of Abrahamaac, and of Jacob, the God of our
fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesu delivered up, and
denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was do let
him go.

3:14 But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desirr
to be granted unto you; 3:15 And killed the Prince of life, whom Goded from the dead; whereof we are witnesses.

3:16 And his name throughis name hath made this man strong,
whom ye see and know: yea, the faitby him hath given him
this perfect soundness in the presence of you ald now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as did
also y

3:18 But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of aphets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.

3:19 Repent ye, and be converted, that your sins may be
blotted out, when the timesing shall come from the presence
of the Lord.

3:20 And he shall send t, which before was preached unto
you: 3:21 Whom the heaven must receie times of restitution
of all things, which God hath spoken by the mous holy
prophets since the world began.

3:22 For Moses truly said untos, A prophet shall the Lord
your God raise up unto you of your brethreo me; him shall
ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hear
that propbe destroyed from among the people.

3:24 Yea, and all the prophets frs have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.

3:25 Ye are the , and of the covenant which
God made with our fathers, saying unto Abr shall
all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

3:26 Unto you first g raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to
bless you, in turning away everu from his iniquities.

4:1 And as they spake unto the people, the priin of
the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them, 4:2 Being grievedtaught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection
from th:3 And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next
days now eventide.

4:4 Howbeit many of them which heard the word believe number
of the men was about five thousand.

4:5 And it came to pass ow, that their rulers, and elders,
and scribes, 4:6 And Annas the high d Caiaphas, and John,
and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindregh priest,
were gathered together at Jerusalem.

4:7 And when they hadn the midst, they asked, By what
power, or by what name, have ye done  Then Peter, filled
with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of , and
elders of Israel, 4:9 If we this day be examined of the good deethe impotent man, by what means he is made whole; 4:10 Be it known
untand to all the people of Israel, that by the name of
Jesus Christ of Nhom ye crucified, whom God raised from the
dead, even by him doth this here before you whole.

4:11 This is the stone which was set at noughuilders, which
is become the head of the corner.

4:12 Neither is thern in any other: for there is none other
name under heaven given among y we must be saved.

4:13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and perceived
that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; aook knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.

4:14 And beholdman which was healed standing with them, they
could say nothing agains5 But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council,
thed among themselves, 4:16 Saying, What shall we do to
these men? for th a notable miracle hath been done by them is
manifest to all them thatJerusalem; and we cannot deny it.

4:17 But that it spread no further e, let us straitly
threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no maname.

4:18 And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at alh in the name of Jesus.

4:19 But Peter and John answered and said untether it be
right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than undge ye.

4:20 For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen an4:21 So when they had further threatened them, they let them go,
findig how they might punish them, because of the people: for
all men glorior that which was done.

4:22 For the man was above forty years old, os miracle of
healing was shewed.

4:23 And being let go, they went to ompany, and reported
all that the chief priests and elders had said un:24 And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with
o and said, Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and
earth, and nd all that in them is: 4:25 Who by the mouth of
thy servant David hasy did the heathen rage, and the people
imagine vain things?  4:26 The he earth stood up, and the
rulers were gathered together against the Lgainst his
Christ.

4:27 For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, ast
anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and tof Israel, were gathered together, 4:28 For to do whatsoever
thy hand unsel determined before to be done.

4:29 And now, Lord, behold their gs: and grant unto thy
servants, that with all boldness they may speak 4:30 By
stretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wondedone by the name of thy holy child Jesus.

4:31 And when they had prayace was shaken where they were
assembled together; and they were all f the Holy Ghost, and
they spake the word of God with boldness.

4:32 Atitude of them that believed were of one heart and of
one soul: neithey of them that ought of the things which he
possessed was his own; butall things common.

4:33 And with great power gave the apostles witnesresurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all.

4: was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were
possessors r houses sold them, and brought the prices of the
things that were sol laid them down at the apostles’ feet:
and distribution was made untan according as he had need.

4:36 And Joses, who by the apostles was arnabas, (which is,
being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levi the
country of Cyprus, 4:37 Having land, sold it, and brought the monid it at the apostles’ feet.

5:1 But a certain man named Ananias, wira his wife, sold a
possession, 5:2 And kept back part of the price, lso being
privy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the 
feet.

5:3 But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine hearo the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
5:4  remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold,
was it not in power? why hast thou conceived this thing in
thine heart?  thou hast nto men, but unto God.

5:5 And Ananias hearing these words fell down,  the ghost:
and great fear came on all them that heard these things.

e young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and
buried him.
t was about the space of three hours after, when his wife,
not knowing done, came in.

5:8 And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sland for
so much? And she said, Yea, for so much.

5:9 Then Peter saidHow is it that ye have agreed together
to tempt the Spirit of the Lordthe feet of them which have
buried thy husband are at the door, and shout.

5:10 Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up ost: and the young men came in, and found her dead, and, carrying
her ied her by her husband.

5:11 And great fear came upon all the church,as many as
heard these things.

5:12 And by the hands of the apostles  signs and wonders
wrought among the people; (and they were all with oin
Solomon’s porch.

5:13 And of the rest durst no man join himself ut the people
magnified them.

5:14 And believers were the more added rd, multitudes both of
men and women.)  5:15 Insomuch that they broughe sick into
the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at th
shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.

5:16 Therea multitude out of the cities round about unto
Jerusalem, bringing sicd them which were vexed with unclean
spirits: and they were healed eve:17 Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him,
(whe sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with
indignation, 5:18 And lhands on the apostles, and put them
in the common prison.

5:19 But th the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and
brought them forth, an:20 Go, stand and speak in the temple
to the people all the words of t
5:21 And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in
, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that were
with him, athe council together, and all the senate of the
children of Israel, an the prison to have them brought.

5:22 But when the officers came, anem not in the prison,
they returned and told, 5:23 Saying, The prison  we shut
with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the when we had opened, we found no man within.

5:24 Now when the high prhe captain of the temple and the
chief priests heard these things, thef them whereunto this
would grow.

5:25 Then came one and told them, sold, the men whom ye put
in prison are standing in the temple, and teapeople.

5:26 Then went the captain with the officers, and brought theviolence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been
stonend when they had brought them, they set them before the council:
and test asked them, 5:28 Saying, Did not we straitly
command you that ye steach in this name? and, behold, ye
have filled Jerusalem with your dod intend to bring this
man’s blood upon us.

5:29 Then Peter and thestles answered and said, We ought to
obey God rather than men.

5:30 Tour fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged
on a tree.

5:31 d exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a
Saviour, for to givce to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.

5:32 And we are his witnesses hings; and so is also the Holy
Ghost, whom God hath given to them that.

5:33 When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took
couay them.

5:34 Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, naml, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people,
and co put the apostles forth a little space; 5:35 And said
unto them, Ye mel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to
do as touching these men.before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be
somebody; tomber of men, about four hundred, joined
themselves: who was slain; andny as obeyed him, were
scattered, and brought to nought.

5:37 After tse up Judas of Galilee in the days of the
taxing, and drew away much pr him: he also perished; and
all, even as many as obeyed him, were dis5:38 And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them
alonthis counsel or this work be of men, it will come to
nought: 5:39 But of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply
ye be found even to fight a.

5:40 And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles,n them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name
of Jesushem go.

5:41 And they departed from the presence of the council, rejothey were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.

5:42 And dailymple, and in every house, they ceased not to
teach and preach Jesus Ch And in those days, when the number of the disciples was
multiplied, ta murmuring of the Grecians against the
Hebrews, because their widows cted in the daily
ministration.

6:2 Then the twelve called the multit disciples unto them,
and said, It is not reason that we should leave God, and
serve tables.

6:3 Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you of honest
report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appo
this business.

6:4 But we will give ourselves continually to prayer,he
ministry of the word.

6:5 And the saying pleased the whole multituy chose
Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philipchorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a
proselyte : 6:6 Whom they set before the apostles: and when
they had prayed, theeir hands on them.

6:7 And the word of God increased; and the number sciples
multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the probedient to the faith.

6:8 And Stephen, full of faith and power, did ers and
miracles among the people.

6:9 Then there arose certain of the, which is called the
synagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, andans, and of
them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.

6:10ere not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by
which he spake.

6they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak
blasphemous wor Moses, and against God.

6:12 And they stirred up the people, and thend the scribes,
and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to l,
6:13 And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not tasphemous words against this holy place, and the law: 6:14 For
we havem say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this
place, and shallhe customs which Moses delivered us.

6:15 And all that sat in the couking stedfastly on him, saw
his face as it had been the face of an anghen said the high priest, Are these things so?  7:2 And he said,
Men, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto
our father Abrahae was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in
Charran, 7:3 And said unto hie out of thy country, and from
thy kindred, and come into the land whishew thee.

7:4 Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him
into thherein ye now dwell.

7:5 And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, h as to set
his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him ession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.

7:6 Aake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a
strange land; and  should bring them into bondage, and
entreat them evil four hundred yeAnd the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said
Godr that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place.

7:8 And he he covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begat
Isaac, and circumcis eighth day; and Isaac begat Jacob; and
Jacob begat the twelve patriar And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but
God im, 7:10 And delivered him out of all his afflictions,
and gave him fawisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt;
and he made him governorpt and all his house.

7:11 Now there came a dearth over all the land  and Chanaan,
and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenanct when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out
our fathe

7:13 And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; as kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.

7:14 Then sent Joseph, and c father Jacob to him, and all his
kindred, threescore and fifteen soul Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,
7:16 And wd over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre that
Abraham bought for oney of the sons of Emmor the father of
Sychem.

7:17 But when the timromise drew nigh, which God had sworn
to Abraham, the people grew and  in Egypt, 7:18 Till another
king arose, which knew not Joseph.

7:19 dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated our
fathers, so thast out their young children, to the end they
might not live.

7:20 Inme Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and
nourished up in his fatuse three months: 7:21 And when he was
cast out, Pharaoh’s daughter p, and nourished him for her
own son.

7:22 And Moses was learned in aom of the Egyptians, and was
mighty in words and in deeds.

7:23 And wll forty years old, it came into his heart to
visit his brethren the c of Israel.

7:24 And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended himed
him that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian: 7:25 For he supposeren would have understood how that God by his hand would
deliver them:understood not.

7:26 And the next day he shewed himself unto them as e, and
would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethrenye wrong one to another?  7:27 But he that did his neighbour wrong
thry, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
7:28 Wilt thou ks thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?  7:29
Then fled Moses at this s was a stranger in the land of
Madian, where he begat two sons.

7:30 orty years were expired, there appeared to him in the
wilderness of mo an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a
bush.

7:31 When Moses swondered at the sight: and as he drew near
to behold it, the voice of me unto him, 7:32 Saying, I am
the God of thy fathers, the God of Abrahe God of Isaac, and
the God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst 

7:33 Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: for where thou standest is holy ground.

7:34 I have seen, I have seen thon of my people which is in
Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, an down to deliver
them. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.

7:3es whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a
judge? the sd send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand
of the angel which apim in the bush.

7:36 He brought them out, after that he had shewed wosigns
in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness s.

7:37 This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, Ahall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren,
like unto mll ye hear.

7:38 This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness
angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: whohe lively oracles to give unto us: 7:39 To whom our fathers
would not t thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned
back again into Egyaying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go
before us: for as for this Moses,ught us out of the land of
Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

7hey made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto
the idol, an in the works of their own hands.

7:42 Then God turned, and gave themship the host of heaven;
as it is written in the book of the prophets,se of Israel,
have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the
forty years in the wilderness?  7:43 Yea, ye took up the tabernacle oand the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to
worship thell carry you away beyond Babylon.

7:44 Our fathers had the tabernacles in the wilderness, as
he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that hee it
according to the fashion that he had seen.

7:45 Which also our ft came after brought in with Jesus into
the possession of the Gentilesave out before the face of
our fathers, unto the days of David; 7:46 W find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.

7:47 But Solomon built him ae most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; as
saith the propy throne, and earth is my
footstool: what house will ye build me? sait or what is the
place of my rest?  7:50 Hath not my hand made all thes7:51
Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always
 Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye.

7:52 Which of the prophett your fathers persecuted? and they
have slain them which shewed beforing of the Just One; of
whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderWho have
received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not k54 When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and
they  him with their teeth.

7:55 But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, loofastly into
heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on thnd
of God, 7:56 And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Sotanding on the right hand of God.

7:57 Then they cried out with a lound stopped their ears,
and ran upon him with one accord, 7:58 And castf the city,
and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes an’s feet, whose name was Saul.

7:59 And they stoned Stephen, calli, and saying, Lord
Jesus, receive my spirit.

7:60 And he kneeled down with a loud voice, Lord, lay not
this sin to their charge. And when hd this, he fell asleep.

8:1 And Saul was consenting unto his death. A time there was
a great persecution against the church which was at Jed
they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and
xcept the apostles.

8:2 And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, great
lamentation over him.

8:3 As for Saul, he made havock of the cering into every
house, and haling men and women committed them to priherefore they that were scattered abroad went every where
preaching th:5 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ
u

8:6 And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things whichke, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.

8:7 For unclean spih loud voice, came out of many that
were possessed with them: and manyh palsies, and that were
lame, were healed.

8:8 And there was great jt city.

8:9 But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetiame city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving
outelf was some great one: 8:10 To whom they all gave heed,
from the leasreatest, saying, This man is the great power of
God.

8:11 And to him egard, because that of long time he had
bewitched them with sorceries.t when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the
kingdoand the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both
men and women.
 Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, he
continued w, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs
which were done.

8:1 the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria
had received f God, they sent unto them Peter and John: 8:15
Who, when they were coprayed for them, that they might
receive the Holy Ghost: 8:16 (For as  fallen upon none of
them: only they were baptized in the name of the .)  8:17
Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Hol:18 And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles’ handsGhost was given, he offered them money, 8:19 Saying, Give me
also thisat on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the
Holy Ghost.

8:20 Butd unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou
hast thought thatof God may be purchased with money.

8:21 Thou hast neither part nor l matter: for thy heart is
not right in the sight of God.

8:22 Repent of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps
the thought of thine be forgiven thee.

8:23 For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bi and in
the bond of iniquity.

8:24 Then answered Simon, and said, Pra the LORD for me, that
none of these things which ye have spoken come 8:25 And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the
Loned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages
of the Sama:26 And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and
goe south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto
Gaza, which i

8:27 And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuc authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the
charge o treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship,
8:28 Was returninting in his chariot read Esaias the
prophet.

8:29 Then the Spirit saiip, Go near, and join thyself to
this chariot.

8:30 And Philip ran thim, and heard him read the prophet
Esaias, and said, Understandest thou readest?  8:31 And he
said, How can I, except some man should guide  desired
Philip that he would come up and sit with him.

8:32 The placscripture which he read was this, He was led as
a sheep to the slaughtke a lamb dumb before his shearer, so
opened he not his mouth: 8:33 Iniation his judgment was
taken away: and who shall declare his generatis life is
taken from the earth.

8:34 And the eunuch answered Philip, , I pray thee, of whom
speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of soan?  8:35
Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripturached unto him Jesus.

8:36 And as they went on their way, they came uain water:
and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder md?  8:37 And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine
heart, thou.

And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of8 And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down
both water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.

8:39 And whee come up out of the water, the Spirit of the
Lord caught away Philip,eunuch saw him no more: and he went
on his way rejoicing.

8:40 But Phund at Azotus: and passing through he preached
in all the cities, tillo Caesarea.

9:1 And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughtethe
disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, 9:2 And desired ers to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of
this way, wy were men or women, he might bring them bound
unto Jerusalem.

9:3 Anourneyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there
shined round aboutt from heaven: 9:4 And he fell to the
earth, and heard a voice saying Saul, Saul, why persecutest
thou me?  9:5 And he said, Who art thou, L the Lord said, I am
Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee gainst the
pricks.

9:6 And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, whou have me
to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the cit
shall be told thee what thou must do.

9:7 And the men which journeim stood speechless, hearing a
voice, but seeing no man.

9:8 And Saulrom the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he
saw no man: but they  the hand, and brought him into
Damascus.

9:9 And he was three days wht, and neither did eat nor
drink.

9:10 And there was a certain disciascus, named Ananias; and
to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. A Behold, I am
here, Lord.

9:11 And the Lord said unto him, Arise, andhe street which
is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas lled
Saul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth, 9:12 And hath seen in aman named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him,
that he mighhis sight.

9:13 Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem: 9:14 And here
hority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy
name.

9:15 d said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel
unto me, to beabefore the Gentiles, and kings, and the
children of Israel: 9:16 For Iw him how great things he must
suffer for my name’s sake.

9:17 And nt his way, and entered into the house; and putting
his hands on him ser Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that
appeared unto thee in the way as t, hath sent me, that thou
mightest receive thy sight, and be filled wiy Ghost.

9:18 And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had beennd he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.

9:19 Andad received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul
certain days withples which were at Damascus.

9:20 And straightway he preached Christ nagogues, that he is
the Son of God.

9:21 But all that heard him werend said; Is not this he that
destroyed them which called on this name em, and came hither
for that intent, that he might bring them bound unef
priests?  9:22 But Saul increased the more in strength, and confouns which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.

9:23 Andat many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to
kill him: 9:24 Baying await was known of Saul. And they
watched the gates day and nighhim.

9:25 Then the disciples took him by night, and let him down by tn a basket.

9:26 And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to jlf
to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed notwas a disciple.

9:27 But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apd
declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he
to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the
name of JesuAnd he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem.

9:29 And hldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and disputed
against the Grecians:ent about to slay him.

9:30 Which when the brethren knew, they brough to Caesarea,
and sent him forth to Tarsus.

9:31 Then had the churcheroughout all Judaea and Galilee and
Samaria, and were edified; and wale fear of the Lord, and in
the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multipl And it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, he
cameo the saints which dwelt at Lydda.

9:33 And there he found a certain  Aeneas, which had kept his
bed eight years, and was sick of the palsynd Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole:
arise,thy bed. And he arose immediately.

9:35 And all that dwelt at Lydda aaw him, and turned to the
Lord.

9:36 Now there was at Joppa a certain named Tabitha, which by
interpretation is called Dorcas: this woman w good works and
almsdeeds which she did.

9:37 And it came to pass in ys, that she was sick, and died:
whom when they had washed, they laid upper chamber.

9:38 And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the had
heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring  he would not delay to come to them.

9:39 Then Peter arose and went w When he was come, they
brought him into the upper chamber: and all thood by him
weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas mashe was with them.

9:40 But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled dowed; and
turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened hnd when she saw Peter, she sat up.

9:41 And he gave her his hand, and up, and when he had
called the saints and widows, presented her alive it was known throughout all Joppa; and many believed in the
Lord.

9:came to pass, that he tarried many days in Joppa with one
Simon a tannThere was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion
of tled the Italian band, 10:2 A devout man, and one that
feared God with use, which gave much alms to the people, and
prayed to God alway.

10:n a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an
angel of God co him, and saying unto him, Cornelius.

10:4 And when he looked on himafraid, and said, What is it,
Lord?  And he said unto him, Thy prayerse alms are come up
for a memorial before God.

10:5 And now send men td call for one Simon, whose surname
is Peter: 10:6 He lodgeth with oneanner, whose house is by
the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oudo.

10:7 And when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of them
that waitentinually; 10:8 And when he had declared all
these things unto them, h to Joppa.

10:9 On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and dreo
the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth
hoAnd he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but while
they made rll into a trance, 10:11 And saw heaven opened,
and a certain vessel depon him, as it had been a great sheet
knit at the four corners, and lehe earth: 10:12 Wherein
were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the eald beasts,
and creeping things, and fowls of the air.

10:13 And therece to him, Rise, Peter; kill, and eat.

10:14 But Peter said, Not so, I have never eaten any thing
that is common or unclean.

10:15 And theke unto him again the second time, What God
hath cleansed, that call ncommon.

10:16 This was done thrice: and the vessel was received up ageaven.

10:17 Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision whiceen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had
may for Simon’s house, and stood before the gate, 10:18 And
called, anhether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged
there.

10:19 Whilought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him,
Behold, three men seek 20 Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting
nothI have sent them.

10:21 Then Peter went down to the men which were seim from
Cornelius; and said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what is therefore ye are come?  10:22 And they said, Cornelius the centurion,
a jnd one that feareth God, and of good report among all the
nation of thas warned from God by an holy angel to send for
thee into his house, a words of thee.

10:23 Then called he them in, and lodged them. And onw Peter
went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompani0:24 And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius
waem, and he had called together his kinsmen and near
friends.

10:25 Anas coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at
his feet, and worshim.

10:26 But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a 7 And as he talked with him, he went in, and found many that were
come.

10:28 And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is an unlawful thi man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one of another
nationath shewed me that I should not call any man common
or unclean.

10:29 came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I was
sent for: I ask for what intent ye have sent for me?  10:30
And Cornelius said, Four d was fasting until this hour; and
at the ninth hour I prayed in my houehold, a man stood
before me in bright clothing, 10:31 And said, Corneprayer is
heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of32 Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname is
Pe lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the sea
side: who, when , shall speak unto thee.

10:33 Immediately therefore I sent to thee; ast well done
that thou art come. Now therefore are we all here presenGod,
to hear all things that are commanded thee of God.

10:34 Then Pe his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive
that God is no respecter o 10:35 But in every nation he that
feareth him, and worketh righteousnaccepted with him.

10:36 The word which God sent unto the children ofreaching
peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:) 10:37 That word, now, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began from
Galileehe baptism which John preached; 10:38 How God anointed
Jesus of Nazaree Holy Ghost and with power: who went about
doing good, and healing al oppressed of the devil; for God
was with him.

10:39 And we are witne things which he did both in the land
of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; wew and hanged on a tree:
10:40 Him God raised up the third day, and shpenly; 10:41
Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before Go
us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.

10:ommanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify
that it is he whained of God to be the Judge of quick and
dead.

10:43 To him give allets witness, that through his name
whosoever believeth in him shall resion of sins.

10:44 While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghostll
them which heard the word.

10:45 And they of the circumcision whic were astonished, as
many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentas poured
out the gift of the Holy Ghost.

10:46 For they heard them sh tongues, and magnify God. Then
answered Peter, 10:47 Can any man for that these should not
be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghosts we?  10:48
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lprayed they him to tarry certain days.

11:1 And the apostles and bretwere in Judaea heard that the
Gentiles had also received the word of Gnd when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the
circumci1:3 Saying, Thou wentest in to men
uncircumcised, and didst eat with tr from the beginning, and expounded
it by order unto them, saying, 11:e city of Joppa
praying: and in a trance I saw a vision, A certain veshad been a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and
it c me: 11:6 Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes,
I considered, rfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts,
and creeping things, andthe air.

11:7 And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter; slay 1:8 But I said, Not so, Lord: for nothing common or unclean hath at
anered into my mouth.

11:9 But the voice answered me again from heaven,ath
cleansed, that call not thou common.

11:10 And this was done threand all were drawn up again into
heaven.

11:11 And, behold, immediate were three men already come unto
the house where I was, sent from Cae me.

11:12 And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting. Morese six brethren accompanied me, and we entered into the man’s
housend he shewed us how he had seen an angel in his house,
which stood and him, Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon,
whose surname is Peter; 1hall tell thee words, whereby thou
and all thy house shall be saved.

s I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us
at the begin6 Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, John
indeeth water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy
Ghost.

11:17 Forasmu God gave them the like gift as he did unto us,
who believed on the Lohrist; what was I, that I could
withstand God?  11:18 When they heard gs, they held their
peace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God alentiles
granted repentance unto life.

11:19 Now they which were scatt upon the persecution that
arose about Stephen travelled as far as Pheyprus, and
Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only.d some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when they
were cooch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the LORD
Jesus.

11:21 And thethe Lord was with them: and a great number
believed, and turned unto t1:22 Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church
whierusalem: and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should
go as far as An:23 Who, when he came, and had seen the grace of God, was glad, and
exm all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto
the Lord.

11was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith:
and much peopto the Lord.

11:25 Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Sauld
when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to
pa whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and
taught mucnd the disciples were called Christians first in
Antioch.

11:27 And iys came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioch.

11:28 And there stood uhem named Agabus, and signified by
the Spirit that there should be grethroughout all the world:
which came to pass in the days of Claudius C29 Then the disciples, every man according to his ability,
determined ief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea:
11:30 Which also they did it to the elders by the hands of
Barnabas and Saul.

12:1 Now about terod the king stretched forth his hands to
vex certain of the church.
he killed James the brother of John with the sword.

12:3 And because pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to
take Peter also. (Then were  unleavened bread.)  12:4 And
when he had apprehended him, he put him , and delivered him
to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; inten Easter to
bring him forth to the people.

12:5 Peter therefore was keson: but prayer was made without
ceasing of the church unto God for hind when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter
was stween two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the
keepers before the the prison.

12:7 And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, anshined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him
uArise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.

12:8 And thid unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy
sandals.

And so he did. An unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and
follow me.

12:9 And he wend followed him; and wist not that it was true
which was done by the ahought he saw a vision.

12:10 When they were past the first and the s they came
unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened
his own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street;
th the angel departed from him.

12:11 And when Peter was come to himsid, Now I know of a
surety, that the LORD hath sent his angel, and hatred me out
of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the phe Jews.

12:12 And when he had considered the thing, he came to the hry the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were
gatherepraying.

12:13 And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damselearken, named Rhoda.

12:14 And when she knew Peter’s voice, she opee gate for
gladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the g5 And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly
affirmed thven so. Then said they, It is his angel.

12:16 But Peter continued kn when they had opened the door,
and saw him, they were astonished.

12 beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace,
declared unto he Lord had brought him out of the prison. And
he said, Go shew these  James, and to the brethren. And he
departed, and went into another plw as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the
soldiers, w become of Peter.

12:19 And when Herod had sought for him, and found e
examined the keepers, and commanded that they should be put to deathwent down from Judaea to Caesarea, and there abode.

12:20 And Herod wispleased with them of Tyre and Sidon: but
they came with one accord t having made Blastus the king’s
chamberlain their friend, desired pese their country was
nourished by the king’s country.

12:21 And upoy Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his
throne, and made an orthem.

12:22 And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of anot of a man.

12:23 And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him,  gave
not God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the gh4 But the word of God grew and multiplied.

12:25 And Barnabas and Sau from Jerusalem, when they had
fulfilled their ministry, and took with whose surname was
Mark.

13:1 Now there were in the church that was acertain prophets
and teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was calledLucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod theand Saul.

13:2 As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy GSeparate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called
thend when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on
them, they away.

13:4 So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed untia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.

13:5 And when they were athey preached the word of God in
the synagogues of the Jews: and they hhn to their minister.

13:6 And when they had gone through the isle un, they found a
certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name wa
13:7 Which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a
prudho called for Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the
word of God.
Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation)
withstood tg to turn away the deputy from the faith.

13:9 Then Saul, (who also iaul,) filled with the Holy Ghost,
set his eyes on him.

13:10 And said all subtilty and all mischief, thou child of
the devil, thou enemy ofusness, wilt thou not cease to
pervert the right ways of the Lord?  13w, behold, the hand
of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, the sun
for a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a d he went about seeking some to lead him by the hand.

13:12 Then the en he saw what was done, believed, being
astonished at the doctrine of
13:13 Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came to
amphylia: and John departing from them returned to
Jerusalem.

13:14 Bhey departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in
Pisidia, and went intgogue on the sabbath day, and sat down.

13:15 And after the reading o and the prophets the rulers of
the synagogue sent unto them, saying, d brethren, if ye have
any word of exhortation for the people, say on.en Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men of
Israel, andar God, give audience.

13:17 The God of this people of Israel chose o and exalted
the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egith
an high arm brought he them out of it.

13:18 And about the time ors suffered he their manners in
the wilderness.

13:19 And when he hadseven nations in the land of Chanaan,
he divided their land to them by20 And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of four
hunifty years, until Samuel the prophet.

13:21 And afterward they desirend God gave unto them Saul
the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjae space of forty
years.

13:22 And when he had removed him, he raised em David to be
their king; to whom also he gave their testimony, and s
found David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shalll my will.

13:23 Of this man’s seed hath God according to his promid unto
Israel a Saviour, Jesus: 13:24 When John had first preached befming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.

13:25 Andlfilled his course, he said, Whom think ye that I
am?  I am not he. Bu there cometh one after me, whose shoes
of his feet I am not worthy to3:26 Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and
whosoeveru feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation
sent.

13:27 For tll at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they
knew him not, nor yet  of the prophets which are read every
sabbath day, they have fulfilledndemning him.

13:28 And though they found no cause of death in him, ythey
Pilate that he should be slain.

13:29 And when they had fulfille was written of him, they
took him down from the tree, and laid him inre.

13:30 But God raised him from the dead: 13:31 And he was seen manthem which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are
his wit the people.

13:32 And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that theich
was made unto the fathers, 13:33 God hath fulfilled the same unto hildren, in that he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is also
written ond psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten
thee.

13:34 And ning that he raised him up from the dead, now no
more to return to core said on this wise, I will give you
the sure mercies of David.

13:35 he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not suffer
thine Holy One ruption.

13:36 For David, after he had served his own generation by t
God, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruptiont he, whom God raised again, saw no corruption.

13:38 Be it known untrefore, men and brethren, that through
this man is preached unto you tess of sins: 13:39 And by
him all that believe are justified from all om which ye
could not be justified by the law of Moses.

13:40 Beware lest that come upon you, which is spoken of in
the prophets; 13:41 Behspisers, and wonder, and perish: for
I work a work in your days, a wor shall in no wise believe,
though a man declare it unto you.

13:42 An Jews were gone out of the synagogue, the Gentiles
besought that theset be preached to them the next sabbath.

13:43 Now when the congregatiken up, many of the Jews and
religious proselytes followed Paul and Ba, speaking to
them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.

1he next sabbath day came almost the whole city together to
hear the wo

13:45 But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with
enspake against those things which were spoken by Paul,
contradicting anming.

13:46 Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was neces the word of God should first have been spoken to you: but seeing
ye p you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life,
lo, we turn tiles.

13:47 For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set the light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the
e earth.

13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and the word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to eternal life
bel49 And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the
region.

he Jews stirred up the devout and honourable women, and the
chief men y, and raised persecution against Paul and
Barnabas, and expelled themeir coasts.

13:51 But they shook off the dust of their feet against tame
unto Iconium.

13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy, and wly Ghost.

14:1 And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both to
the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a great multitude both
s and also of the Greeks believed.

14:2 But the unbelieving Jews stir Gentiles, and made their
minds evil affected against the brethren.

1me therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, which
gave testim the word of his grace, and granted signs and
wonders to be done by th
14:4 But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with th part with the apostles.

14:5 And when there was an assault made bothtiles, and also
of the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefullstone
them, 14:6 They were ware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe,f Lycaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about: 14:7
And therehed the gospel.

14:8 And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent t,
being a cripple from his mother’s womb, who never had walked: 14: heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceiving
that hh to be healed, 14:10 Said with a loud voice, Stand
upright on thy feeed and walked.

14:11 And when the people saw what Paul had done, theyup their
voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come din the likeness of men.

14:12 And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and urius, because
he was the chief speaker.

14:13 Then the priest of Juph was before their city, brought
oxen and garlands unto the gates, ande done sacrifice with
the people.

14:14 Which when the apostles, Barnaul, heard of, they rent
their clothes, and ran in among the people, ct, 14:15 And
saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of ons
with you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanithe living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and
all thin therein: 14:16 Who in times past suffered all
nations to walk in thei.

14:17 Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our
hearts and gladness.

14:18 And with these sayings scarce restrained they thhat
they had not done sacrifice unto them.

14:19 And there came thithJews from Antioch and Iconium,
who persuaded the people, and having st drew him out of the
city, supposing he had been dead.

14:20 Howbeit,ciples stood round about him, he rose up, and
came into the city: and y he departed with Barnabas to
Derbe.

14:21 And when they had preacheel to that city, and had
taught many, they returned again to Lystra, aum, and
Antioch, 14:22 Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhoto continue in the faith, and that we must through much
tribulation ene kingdom of God.

14:23 And when they had ordained them elders in eve and had
prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whomeved.

14:24 And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came tylia.

14:25 And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went d:26 And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had
been recommenderace of God for the work which they
fulfilled.

14:27 And when they wend had gathered the church together,
they rehearsed all that God had dhem, and how he had opened
the door of faith unto the Gentiles.

14:28e they abode long time with the disciples.

15:1 And certain men which from Judaea taught the brethren,
and said, Except ye be circumcised aanner of Moses, ye
cannot be saved.

15:2 When therefore Paul and Barn small dissension and
disputation with them, they determined that Paulbas, and
certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apoelders about this question.

15:3 And being brought on their way by th they passed through
Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of es: and
they caused great joy unto all the brethren.

15:4 And when the to Jerusalem, they were received of the
church, and of the apostles  and they declared all things
that God had done with them.

15:5 But tup certain of the sect of the Pharisees which
believed, saying, That iful to circumcise them, and to
command them to keep the law of Moses.
rs came together for to consider of this
matter.

15:7 And when there ose up, and said
unto them, Men and brethren, ye know how that a good choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the
word of, and believe.

15:8 And God, which knoweth the hearts, bare them witnng them
the Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us; 15:9 And put no differen us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.

15:10 Now therefore ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck of
the disciples, which neither ounor we were able to bear?
15:11 But we believe that through the grace D Jesus Christ
we shall be saved, even as they.

15:12 Then all the mupt silence, and gave audience to
Barnabas and Paul, declaring what mirwonders God had wrought
among the Gentiles by them.

15:13 And after td their peace, James answered, saying, Men
and brethren, hearken unto Simeon hath declared how God at
the first did visit the Gentiles, to tthem a people for his
name.

15:15 And to this agree the words of the s it is written,
15:16 After this I will return, and will build again cle of
David, which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins td I will set it up: 15:17 That the residue of men might seek after
the all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the
Lord, who doe things.

15:18 Known unto God are all his works from the beginning od.

15:19 Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which frhe Gentiles are turned to God: 15:20 But that we write unto
them, thatin from pollutions of idols, and from
fornication, and from things strd from blood.

15:21 For Moses of old time hath in every city them thaim,
being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.

15:22 Then pleasepostles and elders with the whole church,
to send chosen men of their ny to Antioch with Paul and
Barnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas chief men among
the brethren: 15:23 And they wrote letters by them aftnner;
The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the breth are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia.

15:24 Forasmuhave heard, that certain which went out from us
have troubled you withbverting your souls, saying, Ye must
be circumcised, and keep the law: gave no such commandment:
15:25 It seemed good unto us, being assemblne accord, to send
chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and P26 Men that
have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus C:27 We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you
thy mouth.

15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lano greater burden than these necessary things; 15:29 That ye abstain
foffered to idols, and from blood, and from things
strangled, and from n: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye
shall do well. Fare ye well.

hen they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they
had gatheltitude together, they delivered the epistle: 15:31
Which when they haey rejoiced for the consolation.

15:32 And Judas and Silas, being pro themselves, exhorted
the brethren with many words, and confirmed themnd after they had tarried there a space, they were let go in
peace froren unto the apostles.

15:34 Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abidill.

15:35 Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and
he word of the Lord, with many others also.

15:36 And some days after unto Barnabas, Let us go again and
visit our brethren in every city w preached the word of
the LORD, and see how they do.

15:37 And Barnabned to take with them John, whose surname
was Mark.

15:38 But Paul thgood to take him with them, who departed
from them from Pamphylia, and with them to the work.

15:39 And the contention was so sharp betweent they departed
asunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark,d unto
Cyprus; 15:40 And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommee brethren unto the grace of God.

15:41 And he went through Syria andconfirming the churches.

16:1 Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, certain disciple
was there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain womaas a
Jewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek: 16:2 Which was rted of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.

16:3 Him wouve to go forth with him; and took and
circumcised him because of the Jere in those quarters: for
they knew all that his father was a Greek.
as they went through the cities, they delivered them the
decrees for tt were ordained of the apostles and elders
which were at Jerusalem.

1 were the churches established in the faith, and increased
in number d6 Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of
Galatia,forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in
Asia, 16:7 After thee to Mysia, they assayed to go into
Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered 

16:8 And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.

16:9 And a visiod to Paul in the night; There stood a man of
Macedonia, and prayed himCome over into Macedonia, and help
us.

16:10 And after he had seen th immediately we endeavoured to
go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering ord had called us for
to preach the gospel unto them.

16:11 Thereforerom Troas, we came with a straight course to
Samothracia, and the nextapolis; 16:12 And from thence to
Philippi, which is the chief city of of Macedonia, and a
colony: and we were in that city abiding certain dnd on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side,
where prayewont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the
women which resorr.

16:14 And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the hyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord
opened, ttended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.

16:15 And when shezed, and her household, she besought us,
saying, If ye have judged me hful to the Lord, come into my
house, and abide there. And she constra16:16 And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel
possa spirit of divination met us, which brought her
masters much gain by ying: 16:17 The same followed Paul and us,
and cried, saying, These meervants of the most high God,
which shew unto us the way of salvation.nd this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and
said tot, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come
out of her.

Andt the same hour.

16:19 And when her masters saw that the hope of thei gone,
they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace lers, 16:20 And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These
men, beo exceedingly trouble our city, 16:21 And teach
customs, which are notr us to receive, neither to observe,
being Romans.

16:22 And the mult up together against them: and the
magistrates rent off their clothes,nded to beat them.

16:23 And when they had laid many stripes upon thet them
into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely: 16:24 Whoceived such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and
made theit in the stocks.

16:25 And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sanunto
God: and the prisoners heard them.

16:26 And suddenly there was arthquake, so that the
foundations of the prison were shaken: and imme the doors
were opened, and every one’s bands were loosed.

16:27 Anper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, and
seeing the prison door drew out his sword, and would have
killed himself, supposing that thehad been fled.

16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyrm:
for we are all here.

16:29 Then he called for a light, and sprangcame trembling,
and fell down before Paul and Silas, 16:30 And brought and
said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?  16:31 And they said, Bel Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.

16:32 And unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that
were in his house.

16took them the same hour of the night, and washed their
stripes; and wa, he and all his, straightway.

16:34 And when he had brought them int, he set meat before
them, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his6:35 And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying,
en go.

16:36 And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, Tates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go in
peace.

aul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned,
being Romae cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us
out privily? nay verit them come themselves and fetch us
out.

16:38 And the serjeants tolds unto the magistrates: and
they feared, when they heard that they wer.

16:39 And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and
deo depart out of the city.

16:40 And they went out of the prison, and to the house of
Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comfo and
departed.

17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Ahey
came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews: 17:2 And
is manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days
reasoned withf the scriptures, 17:3 Opening and alleging,
that Christ must needs had, and risen again from the dead;
and that this Jesus, whom I preach us Christ.

17:4 And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul andd
of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them
certellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and
set all the cityoar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and
sought to bring them out to

17:6 And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain
brethhe rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned
the world upsideome hither also; 17:7 Whom Jason hath
received: and these all do contr decrees of Caesar, saying
that there is another king, one Jesus.

17:y troubled the people and the rulers of the city, when
they heard thes
17:9 And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, the go.

17:10 And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by nBerea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.

17:11 more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they
received the word eadiness of mind, and searched the
scriptures daily, whether those thi.

17:12 Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women whieeks, and of men, not a few.

17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica dge that the word of
God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thitand stirred
up the people.

17:14 And then immediately the brethren seul to go as it
were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there st5 And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: and
receiving ent unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him
with all speed, they d17:16 Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirredn he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.

17:17 Therefore disputed synagogue with the Jews, and with
the devout persons, and in the marketh them that met with
him.

17:18 Then certain philosophers of the Epind of the Stoicks,
encountered him. And some said, What will this babbher
some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he
to them Jesus, and the resurrection.

17:19 And they took him, and bronto Areopagus, saying, May
we know what this new doctrine, whereof tho:20 For
thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would knoe what these things mean.

17:21 (For all the Athenians and strangers there spent
their time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hearthing.)  17:22 Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars’ hill, and said,Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too
superstitious.

17:23assed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar
with this inscriTHE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye
ignorantly worship, him declare I u7:24 God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he
isaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
17:25 Neitherped with men’s hands, as though he needed any
thing, seeing he givete, and breath, and all things; 17:26
And hath made of one blood all naen for to dwell on all the
face of the earth, and hath determined the re appointed, and
the bounds of their habitation; 17:27 That they shou Lord,
if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be m every one of us: 17:28 For in him we live, and move, and have our
bertain also of your own poets have said, For we are also
his offspring.asmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to
think thatd is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven
by art and man’s de0 And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now
commandeth al where to repent: 17:31 Because he hath
appointed a day, in the which dge the world in righteousness
by that man whom he hath ordained; wherh given assurance
unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the deAnd when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some
mocked: and d, We will hear thee again of this matter.

17:33 So Paul departed from.

17:34 Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among the
Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and
others with tAfter these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to
Corinth; 18:d a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus,
lately come from Italy, ife Priscilla; (because that
Claudius had commanded all Jews to departme:) and came unto
them.

18:3 And because he was of the same craft, hth them, and
wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.

1 reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the
Jews and t.

18:5 And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul wan the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was
Christ.

18:6 Aey opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his
raiment, and said  blood be upon your own heads; I am
clean; from henceforth I will go uentiles.

18:7 And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man,
named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the.

18:8 And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on thh all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed,
and wer.

18:9 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not
a speak, and hold not thy peace: 18:10 For I am with thee,
and no man son thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in
this city.

18:11 And ed there a year and six months, teaching the word
of God among them.

hen Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made
insurrection with oagainst Paul, and brought him to the
judgment seat, 18:13 Saying, Thisrsuadeth men to worship God
contrary to the law.

18:14 And when Paul out to open his mouth, Gallio said unto
the Jews, If it were a matter r wicked lewdness, O ye Jews,
reason would that I should bear with yout if it be a
question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to will be no judge of such matters.

18:16 And he drave them from the ju.

18:17 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the
synd beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for
none of tho

18:18 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then
teave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with
him Priscila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he
had a vow.

18:19 And hEphesus, and left them there: but he himself
entered into the synagoguoned with the Jews.

18:20 When they desired him to tarry longer time  he
consented not; 18:21 But bade them farewell, saying, I must by allp this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return
again unto yoill. And he sailed from Ephesus.

18:22 And when he had landed at Caesone up, and saluted the
church, he went down to Antioch.

18:23 And afspent some time there, he departed, and went
over all the country of GPhrygia in order, strengthening
all the disciples.

18:24 And a certai Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent
man, and mighty in the scrip to Ephesus.

18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; anrvent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of
the ing only the baptism of John.

18:26 And he began to speak boldly in tue: whom when Aquila
and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them,nded unto
him the way of God more perfectly.

18:27 And when he was dipass into Achaia, the brethren
wrote, exhorting the disciples to receio, when he was come,
helped them much which had believed through gracer he
mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the
shat Jesus was Christ.

19:1 And it came to pass, that, while Apollos wth, Paul
having passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and ftain disciples, 19:2 He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy
Ghos believed?  And they said unto him, We have not so much
as heard whethe any Holy Ghost.

19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptism.

19:4 Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism oey should believe on him
which should come after him, that is, on Chrithey heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord
Jesus.

19en Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came
on them; andngues, and prophesied.

19:7 And all the men were about twelve.

19:8 synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of
three months, disputing aing the things concerning the
kingdom of God.

19:9 But when divers we, and believed not, but spake evil
of that way before the multitude, h from them, and separated
the disciples, disputing daily in the schoolrannus.

19:10 And this continued by the space of two years; so that aich dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and
Gree1 And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul: 19:12 So
thatbody were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons,
and the diseaed from them, and the evil spirits went out of
them.

19:13 Then certavagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to
call over them which had es the name of the LORD Jesus,
saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul:14 And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the
prh did so.

19:15 And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, 
know; but who are ye?  19:16 And the man in whom the evil spirit was
hem, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that
they fled t house naked and wounded.

19:17 And this was known to all the Jews aalso dwelling at
Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of tsus was
magnified.

19:18 And many that believed came, and confessed, d their
deeds.

19:19 Many of them also which used curious arts broughks
together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the pric and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.

19:20 So mightily grewof God and prevailed.

19:21 After these things were ended, Paul purpo spirit, when
he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jering, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.

19:22 So he sent nia two of them that ministered unto him,
Timotheus and Erastus; but htayed in Asia for a season.

19:23 And the same time there arose no smout that way.

19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith,
silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;
1he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and
said, Sirsy this craft we have our wealth.

19:26 Moreover ye see and hear, thate at Ephesus, but almost
throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuadedd away much
people, saying that they be no gods, which are made with h7
So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; but the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised,
and her mace should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world
worshippeth.

19:2n they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and
cried out, saat is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:29 And the whole city was filled witn: and having caught
Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul’sns in travel,
they rushed with one accord into the theatre.

19:30 Andul would have entered in unto the people, the
disciples suffered him n And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sent
unto hng him that he would not adventure himself into the
theatre.

19:32 Soore cried one thing, and some another: for the
assembly was confused: ore part knew not wherefore they were
come together.

19:33 And they dder out of the multitude, the Jews putting
him forward. And Alexander ith the hand, and would have made
his defence unto the people.

19:34 they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about
the space of twocried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:35 And when the townclpeased the people, he said, Ye men
of Ephesus, what man is there that t how that the city of
the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddand of the
image which fell down from Jupiter?  19:36 Seeing then thatngs cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to do
nothing :37 For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers
of nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.

19:38 Wherefore if Demetrius, atsmen which are with him,
have a matter against any man, the law is opere are
deputies: let them implead one another.

19:39 But if ye enquing concerning other matters, it shall
be determined in a lawful assembFor we are in danger to be called in question for this day’s
uproar,ng no cause whereby we may give an account of this
concourse.

19:41 A had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.

20:1 And after the uproased, Paul called unto him the
disciples, and embraced them, and departo into Macedonia.

20:2 And when he had gone over those parts, and had much
exhortation, he came into Greece, 20:3 And there abode three monen the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into
Syria, he o return through Macedonia.

20:4 And there accompanied him into Asia  Berea; and of the
Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius nd
Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.

20:5 These going bied for us at Troas.

20:6 And we sailed away from Philippi after the eavened
bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abod
20:7 And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came
togek bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on
the morrow; and cis speech until midnight.

20:8 And there were many lights in the uppe where they were
gathered together.

20:9 And there sat in a window a ung man named Eutychus,
being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul waaching, he
sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, an
up dead.

20:10 And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing hiouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.

20:11 When he therefore up again, and had broken bread, and
eaten, and talked a long while, ereak of day, so he
departed.

20:12 And they brought the young man alire not a little
comforted.

20:13 And we went before to ship, and sailsos, there
intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, mindingto
go afoot.

20:14 And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, o
Mitylene.

20:15 And we sailed thence, and came the next day over agos;
and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; at day we came to Miletus.

20:16 For Paul had determined to sail by Epause he would not
spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were po him, to
be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.

20:17 And from Miletus Ephesus, and called the elders of
the church.

20:18 And when they we him, he said unto them, Ye know, from
the first day that I came into  what manner I have been
with you at all seasons, 20:19 Serving the LOl humility of
mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befelllying in wait of the Jews: 20:20 And how I kept back nothing that was
 unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you
publickly, and frohouse, 20:21 Testifying both to the Jews,
and also to the Greeks, repeard God, and faith toward our
Lord Jesus Christ.

20:22 And now, beholund in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not
knowing the things that shall bere: 20:23 Save that the
Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying thnd afflictions
abide me.

20:24 But none of these things move me, neitt I my life dear
unto myself, so that I might finish my course with jo
ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the
gose grace of God.

20:25 And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whomne
preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.

20:26 Wheake you to record this day, that I am pure from the
blood of all men.
I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of
God.

20:28 therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over
the which the Hoath made you overseers, to feed the church
of God, which he hath purch his own blood.

20:29 For I know this, that after my departing shall olves
enter in among you, not sparing the flock.

20:30 Also of your oshall men arise, speaking perverse
things, to draw away disciples afte0:31 Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years
It to warn every one night and day with tears.

20:32 And now, brethrend you to God, and to the word of his
grace, which is able to build youo give you an inheritance
among all them which are sanctified.

20:33 eted no man’s silver, or gold, or apparel.

20:34 Yea, ye yourselvest these hands have ministered unto
my necessities, and to them that wee.

20:35 I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye oughtt the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he
said, ssed to give than to receive.

20:36 And when he had thus spoken, he kn, and prayed with
them all.

20:37 And they all wept sore, and fell o neck, and kissed him,
20:38 Sorrowing most of all for the words which that they
should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto 
21:1 And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and ha, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the day
following untond from thence unto Patara: 21:2 And finding a
ship sailing over unto we went aboard, and set forth.

21:3 Now when we had discovered Cyprusit on the left hand,
and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for thip was to
unlade her burden.

21:4 And finding disciples, we tarried t days: who said to
Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up t And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our
wayhey all brought us on our way, with wives and children, till
we were oity: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.

21:6 And when we hur leave one of another, we took ship; and
they returned home again.

when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to
Ptolemais, and sbrethren, and abode with them one day.

21:8 And the next day we that s company departed, and
came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the Philip the
evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him. the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.

21:10 tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a
certain prophetabus.

21:11 And when he was come unto us, he took Paul’s girdle, ans own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall
th Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall
deliver himhands of the Gentiles.

21:12 And when we heard these things, both we,of that place,
besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.

21:13 Then Pau, What mean ye to weep and to break mine
heart?  for I am ready not toonly, but also to die at
Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.

21en he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will
of the Lord 21:15 And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to
Je21:16 There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea,
anwith them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom
we should l1:17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us
glad And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all
the elresent.

21:19 And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly  God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.

21:20 And when tit, they glorified the Lord, and said unto
him, Thou seest, brother, husands of Jews there are which
believe; and they are all zealous of th1 And they are
informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which the
Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcihildren, neither to walk after the customs.

21:22 What is it thereforitude must needs come together:
for they will hear that thou art come.o therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which
have a vo21:24 Them take, and purify thyself with them, and
be at charges with t they may shave their heads: and all may
know that those things, wherere informed concerning thee,
are nothing; but that thou thyself also derly, and keepest
the law.

21:25 As touching the Gentiles which belie written and
concluded that they observe no such thing, save only tha
themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from
strd from fornication.

21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day pumself with
them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishments of purification, until that an offering should be offered for
every .

21:27 And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which wer, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people,
and laidhim, 21:28 Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is
the man, that teacen every where against the people, and the
law, and this place: and fuht Greeks also into the temple,
and hath polluted this holy place.

21they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an
Ephesian, whom ed that Paul had brought into the temple.)
21:30 And all the city was  the people ran together: and
they took Paul, and drew him out of the  forthwith the
doors were shut.

21:31 And as they went about to kill gs came unto the chief
captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in 

21:32 Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unt when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left
beating o1:33 Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded
himnd with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he
had done.

21ome cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and
when he coow the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him
to be carried into t
21:35 And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne
 for the violence of the people.

21:36 For the multitude of the peoplfter, crying, Away
with him.

21:37 And as Paul was to be led into thehe said unto the
chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst
Greek?  21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days
madoar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand
men that were m 21:39 But Paul said, I am a man which am a
Jew of Tarsus, a city in Citizen of no mean city: and, I
beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto t
21:40 And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a
great silenke unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying, 22:1
Men, brethren, and fat ye my defence which I make now unto
you.

22:2 (And when they heard te in the Hebrew tongue to them,
they kept the more silence: and he saiI am verily a man
which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yt up in
this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the
manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye
a day.

22:4 And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delio prisons both men and women.

22:5 As also the high priest doth bear , and all the estate
of the elders: from whom also I received letters rethren,
and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unem, for to be punished.

22:6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my nd was come
nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heat light round about me.

22:7 And I fell unto the ground, and heard aying unto me,
Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?  22:8 And I answert
thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou
p.

22:9 And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afray heard not the voice of him that spake to me.

22:10 And I said, Whato, LORD? And the Lord said unto me,
Arise, and go into Damascus; and thall be told thee of all
things which are appointed for thee to do.

2hen I could not see for the glory of that light, being led
by the handhat were with me, I came into Damascus.

22:12 And one Ananias, a devoording to the law, having a
good report of all the Jews which dwelt th Came unto me, and
stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy  the same
hour I looked up upon him.

22:14 And he said, The God of ouath chosen thee, that thou
shouldest know his will, and see that Just houldest hear the
voice of his mouth.

22:15 For thou shalt be his witl men of what thou hast
seen and heard.

22:16 And now why tarriest th, and be baptized, and wash away
thy sins, calling on the name of the 7 And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem,
even ayed in the temple, I was in a trance; 22:18 And saw
him saying unto mste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem:
for they will not receive ony concerning me.

22:19 And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisone in every
synagogue them that believed on thee: 22:20 And when the blomartyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto
hm that slew him.

22:21 And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send tles.

22:22 And they gave him audience unto this word, and then liftedand said, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for it
is not fit thnd cast off their clothes, and threw
dust into the air, 22:24 The chiee, and bade that he should be examined by scourging;
that he might knoim.

22:25 And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centustood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman,
and ud?  22:26 When the centurion heard that, he went and
told the chief caying, Take heed what thou doest: for this
man is a Roman.

22:27 Then  captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art
thou a Roman? He said, 28 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this
fr Paul said, But I was free born.

22:29 Then straightway they departed which should have
examined him: and the chief captain also was afraide knew
that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.

22:30 On thbecause he would have known the certainty
wherefore he was accused of he loosed him from his bands,
and commanded the chief priests and all appear, and
brought Paul down, and set him before them.

23:1 And Paul beholding the council, said, Men and
brethren, I have lived in all goence before God until this
day.

23:2 And the high priest Ananias commm that stood by him to
smite him on the mouth.

23:3 Then said Paul unGod shall smite thee, thou whited wall:
for sittest thou to judge me aaw, and commandest me to be
smitten contrary to the law?  23:4 And theood by said,
Revilest thou God’s high priest?  23:5 Then said Paul, ,
brethren, that he was the high priest: for it is written, Thou shaltk evil of the ruler of thy people.

23:6 But when Paul perceived that rt were Sadducees, and the
other Pharisees, he cried out in the counci brethren, I am a
Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resf the
dead I am called in question.

23:7 And when he had so said, the dissension between the
Pharisees and the Sadducees: and the multituded.

23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither
 spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.

23:9 And there arose a greatthe scribes that were of the
Pharisees’ part arose, and strove, sayi no evil in this
man: but if a spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, st God.

23:10 And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captt Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them, commanded
the soldiewn, and to take him by force from among them, and
to bring him into th
23:11 And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of
, Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so
must thou be also at Rome.

23:12 And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded and
bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat till they had killed Paul.

23:13 And they were more than forty whichs conspiracy.

23:14 And they came to the chief priests and elders, ane have
bound ourselves under a great curse, that we will eat nothing ue slain Paul.

23:15 Now therefore ye with the council signify to the ain
that he bring him down unto you to morrow, as though ye would enquing more perfectly concerning him: and we, or ever he come near,
are rl him.

23:16 And when Paul’s sister’s son heard of their lying in
went and entered into the castle, and told Paul.

23:17 Then Paul calthe centurions unto him, and said, Bring
this young man unto the chiefor he hath a certain thing to
tell him.

23:18 So he took him, and bro the chief captain, and said,
Paul the prisoner called me unto him, ane to bring this
young man unto thee, who hath something to say unto thThen the chief captain took him by the hand, and went with him
aside pand asked him, What is that thou hast to tell me?
23:20 And he said, T agreed to desire thee that thou
wouldest bring down Paul to morrow inncil, as though they
would enquire somewhat of him more perfectly.

23 not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him
of them more men, which have bound themselves with an oath,
that they will neither k till they have killed him: and
now are they ready, looking for a prothee.

23:22 So the chief captain then let the young man depart, and cm, See thou tell no man that thou hast shewed these things to me.

23:called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready two
hundred soldier Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten,
and spearmen two hundred, rd hour of the night; 23:24 And
provide them beasts, that they may set and bring him safe
unto Felix the governor.

23:25 And he wrote a letthis manner: 23:26 Claudius Lysias
unto the most excellent governor Fe greeting.

23:27 This man was taken of the Jews, and should have beenthem: then came I with an army, and rescued him, having understood
thaRoman.

23:28 And when I would have known the cause wherefore they acc I brought him forth into their council: 23:29 Whom I perceived to
be  questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his
charge worthy or of bonds.

23:30 And when it was told me how that the Jews laid wa man,
I sent straightway to thee, and gave commandment to his accuserssay before thee what they had against him. Farewell.

23:31 Then the sas commanded them, took Paul, and
brought him by night to Antipatris.
 morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and
returned to the cas Who, when they came to Caesarea and
delivered the epistle to the goveresented Paul also before him.

23:34 And when the governor had read tprovince he was. And when he understood that he was of Cilicia; 23:35
are also come. And he
commanded him to be kept in Herod’s judgment he days Ananias the high priest descended with the
elders, and with a cator named Tertullus, who informed the
governor against Paul.

24:2 Anwas called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him,
saying, Seeing that bnjoy great quietness, and that very
worthy deeds are done unto this na providence, 24:3 We
accept it always, and in all places, most noble F all
thankfulness.

24:4 Notwithstanding, that I be not further tediou, I pray
thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words.
we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of
sedition amo Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of
the sect of the NazareWho also hath gone about to profane
the temple: whom we took, and woulged according to our law.

24:7 But the chief captain Lysias came uponith great
violence took him away out of our hands, 24:8 Commanding histo come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge
se things, whereof we accuse him.

24:9 And the Jews also assented, sa these things were so.

24:10 Then Paul, after that the governor had bto him to
speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of 
a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself:ause that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but
twelve days snt up to Jerusalem for to worship.

24:12 And they neither found me inle disputing with any man,
neither raising up the people, neither in tues, nor in the
city: 24:13 Neither can they prove the things whereof accuse
me.

24:14 But this I confess unto thee, that after the way whill
heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things whritten in the law and in the prophets: 24:15 And have hope toward
God,y themselves also allow, that there shall be a
resurrection of the dea the just and unjust.

24:16 And herein do I exercise myself, to have conscience
void to offence toward God, and toward men.

24:17 Now afters I came to bring alms to my nation, and
offerings.

24:18 Whereupon ws from Asia found me purified in the
temple, neither with multitude, mult.

24:19 Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if tght against me.

24:20 Or else let these same here say, if they have fvil
doing in me, while I stood before the council, 24:21 Except it be ne voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the
resurrection d I am called in question by you this day.

24:22 And when Felix heardngs, having more perfect knowledge
of that way, he deferred them, and n Lysias the chief captain
shall come down, I will know the uttermost tter.

24:23 And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let himty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to
minister or  him.

24:24 And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Druch was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the
faith .

24:25 And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I
have at season, I will call for thee.

24:26 He hoped also that money shouldn given him of Paul,
that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for hier, and
communed with him.

24:27 But after two years Porcius Festus celix’ room: and
Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Pau:1 Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he
ascfrom Caesarea to Jerusalem.

25:2 Then the high priest and the chief os informed him
against Paul, and besought him, 25:3 And desired favourim,
that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way to

25:4 But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and
imself would depart shortly thither.

25:5 Let them therefore, said heong you are able, go down
with me, and accuse this man, if there be an.

25:6 And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he wento Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seat
commanded Parought.

25:7 And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerud round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul,
whild not prove.

25:8 While he answered for himself, Neither against thee
Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I
offhing at all.

25:9 But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answ, and
said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of thesefore me?  25:10 Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar’s judgment
seat, wht to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as
thou very well k5:11 For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of
deuse not to die: but if there be none of these things
whereof these acc man may deliver me unto them. I appeal
unto Caesar.

25:12 Then Festu had conferred with the council, answered,
Hast thou appealed unto Caeaesar shalt thou go.

25:13 And after certain days king Agrippa and Be unto
Caesarea to salute Festus.

25:14 And when they had been there mFestus declared Paul’s
cause unto the king, saying, There is a certat in bonds by
Felix: 25:15 About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the ch
and the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgment
aga
25:16 To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to
deliv to die, before that he which is accused have the
accusers face to face licence to answer for himself
concerning the crime laid against him.erefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on the
morrow I judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought
forth.

25:18 Agaiwhen the accusers stood up, they brought none
accusation of such thingposed: 25:19 But had certain
questions against him of their own supersd of one Jesus,
which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.

25:20e I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked him
whether he would salem, and there be judged of these
matters.

25:21 But when Paul had o be reserved unto the hearing of
Augustus, I commanded him to be keptht send him to Caesar.

25:22 Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would ahe man myself.
To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.

25:23 And on , when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with
great pomp, and was enteredplace of hearing, with the chief
captains, and principal men of the cius’ commandment Paul
was brought forth.

25:24 And Festus said, Kingnd all men which are here
present with us, ye see this man, about whomltitude of the
Jews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem, and also he that
he ought not to live any longer.

25:25 But when I found that heitted nothing worthy of death,
and that he himself hath appealed to Auave determined to
send him.

25:26 Of whom I have no certain thing to to my lord. Wherefore
I have brought him forth before you, and specialthee, O king
Agrippa, that, after examination had, I might have somewhe.

25:27 For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and noo signify the crimes laid against him.

26:1 Then Agrippa said unto Pa permitted to speak for
thyself.

Then Paul stretched forth the hand, red for himself: 26:2 I
think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shr for myself
this day before thee touching all the things whereof I amf
the Jews: 26:3 Especially because I know thee to be expert in all
cu questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech
thee to hear tly.

26:4 My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first amon nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews; 26:5 Which knew me
from the , if they would testify, that after the most
straitest sect of our relived a Pharisee.

26:6 And now I stand and am judged for the hope of te made of
God, unto our fathers: 26:7 Unto which promise our twelve trtantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope’s
sakgrippa, I am accused of the Jews.

26:8 Why should it be thought a thidible with you, that God
should raise the dead?  26:9 I verily thoughtlf, that I
ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Na10 Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did
I sson, having received authority from the chief priests;
and when they wdeath, I gave my voice against them.

26:11 And I punished them oft inogue, and compelled them
to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad againpersecuted
them even unto strange cities.

26:12 Whereupon as I went t with authority and commission
from the chief priests, 26:13 At middayI saw in the way a
light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun,ining round
about me and them which journeyed with me.

26:14 And whenll fallen to the earth, I heard a voice
speaking unto me, and saying iw tongue, Saul, Saul, why
persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to t the pricks.

26:15 And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am
thou persecutest.

26:16 But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I hav unto thee
for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness bot
things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will
o thee; 26:17 Delivering thee from the people, and from the
Gentiles, now I send thee, 26:18 To open their eyes, and to
turn them from darknht, and from the power of Satan unto
God, that they may receive forgivins, and inheritance among
them which are sanctified by faith that is :19 Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the
heavenly:20 But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at
Jerusalem, and throthe coasts of Judaea, and then to the
Gentiles, that they should repen to God, and do works meet
for repentance.

26:21 For these causes theht me in the temple, and went
about to kill me.

26:22 Having thereforhelp of God, I continue unto this day,
witnessing both to small and grnone other things than
those which the prophets and Moses did say shou6:23 That
Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that sfrom the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the
Genti And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice,
Paulbeside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad.

26:25 But he said, d, most noble Festus; but speak forth
the words of truth and sobernessr the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak
freely: frsuaded that none of these things are hidden from
him; for this thing ne in a corner.

26:27 King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I knthou
believest.

26:28 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persua be a
Christian.

26:29 And Paul said, I would to God, that not only tlso all
that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such aept these bonds.

26:30 And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up,vernor,
and Bernice, and they that sat with them: 26:31 And when they aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth
nothing  death or of bonds.

26:32 Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man mign set at
liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.

27:1 And when ihat we should sail into Italy, they
delivered Paul and certain other p Augustus’ band.

27:2 And entering into a ship of Adramyttium, we lto
sail by the coasts of Asia; one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of
Thessa.

27:3 And the next day we touched at Sidon. And Julius courteously
eaul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh
himself.

hen we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus,
because the wcontrary.

27:5 And when we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamcame to Myra, a city of Lycia.

27:6 And there the centurion found a sxandria sailing into
Italy; and he put us therein.

27:7 And when we h slowly many days, and scarce were come
over against Cnidus, the wind ring us, we sailed under Crete,
over against Salmone; 27:8 And, hardly, came unto a place
which is called The fair havens; nigh whereunto waof Lasea.

27:9 Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now
because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them, 27:10 Anto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt
and much ot only of the lading and ship, but also of our
lives.

27:11 Nevertheenturion believed the master and the owner of
the ship, more than thoswhich were spoken by Paul.

27:12 And because the haven was not commodn, the more
part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they m
to Phenice, and there to winter; which is an haven of Crete, and lietthe south west and north west.

27:13 And when the south wind blew sofing that they had
obtained their purpose, loosing thence, they sailed rete.

27:14 But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wd Euroclydon.

27:15 And when the ship was caught, and could not bear e
wind, we let her drive.

27:16 And running under a certain island whled Clauda, we
had much work to come by the boat: 27:17 Which when then up,
they used helps, undergirding the ship; and, fearing lest they sll into the quicksands, strake sail, and so were driven.

27:18 And weeedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day
they lightened the ship; e third day we cast out with our
own hands the tackling of the ship.

when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no
small tempests, all hope that we should be saved was then
taken away.

27:21 But afabstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them,
and said, Sirs, ye se hearkened unto me, and not have loosed
from Crete, and to have gainem and loss.

27:22 And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there no
loss of any man’s life among you, but of the ship.

27:23 For ththis night the angel of God, whose I am,
and whom I serve, 27:24 Sayinot, Paul; thou must be brought
before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given hem that sail with
thee.

27:25 Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: forGod, that it
shall be even as it was told me.

27:26 Howbeit we must bon a certain island.

27:27 But when the fourteenth night was come, asdriven up and
down in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that thear
to some country; 27:28 And sounded, and found it twenty fathoms: aey had gone a little further, they sounded again, and found it
fifteen
27:29 Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast
fs out of the stern, and wished for the day.

27:30 And as the shipmen o flee out of the ship, when they
had let down the boat into the sea, ur as though they would
have cast anchors out of the foreship, 27:31 P the
centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, yesaved.

27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and letoff.

27:33 And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and
conting, having taken nothing.

27:34 Wherefore I pray you to take some meis is for your
health: for there shall not an hair fall from the head ou.

27:35 And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to
eat.

27ere they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.

27:37 And wall in the ship two hundred threescore and
sixteen souls.

27:38 And wd eaten enough, they lightened the ship, and
cast out the wheat into t7:39 And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered
creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it
were possibust in the ship.

27:40 And when they had taken up the anchors, they cemselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised up
the  the wind, and made toward shore.

27:41 And falling into a place wher met, they ran the ship
aground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remaeable, but the
hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.
the soldiers’ counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of
them shout, and escape.

27:43 But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept  their
purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast
tirst into the sea, and get to land: 27:44 And the rest,
some on boards on broken pieces of the ship.

And so it came to pass, that they escae to land.

28:1 And when they were escaped, then they knew that the ialled Melita.

28:2 And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindney
kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present
recause of the cold.

28:3 And when Paul had gathered a bundle of stickd them on
the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened o:4 And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand,
th themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom,
though he hath escsea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.

28:5 And he shook off the bthe fire, and felt no harm.

28:6 Howbeit they looked when he should h, or fallen down
dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great whil no
harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a7 In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the
islande was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three
days courteously.
it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a
fever and offlux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and
laid his hands on him,  him.

28:9 So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in , came, and were healed: 28:10 Who also honoured us with many
honours;we departed, they laded us with such things as were
necessary.

28:11 three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria,
which had wintered i, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.

28:12 And landing at Syracuse, wethere three days.

28:13 And from thence we fetched a compass, and camum: and
after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to 28:14 Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with
them seand so we went toward Rome.

28:15 And from thence, when the brethren , they came to
meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: waul
saw, he thanked God, and took courage.

28:16 And when we came to enturion delivered the prisoners
to the captain of the guard: but Paulered to dwell by himself
with a soldier that kept him.

28:17 And it cs, that after three days Paul called the chief
of the Jews together: ahey were come together, he said unto
them, Men and brethren, though I tted nothing against the
people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I prisoner from
Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.

28:18 Who, whenexamined me, would have let me go, because
there was no cause of death8:19 But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal
u; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.

28:20 For this cause tave I called for you, to see you, and
to speak with you: because that e of Israel I am bound with
this chain.

28:21 And they said unto him,r received letters out of
Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the bhat came shewed
or spake any harm of thee.

28:22 But we desire to heahat thou thinkest: for as
concerning this sect, we know that every whepoken against.

28:23 And when they had appointed him a day, there cam him
into his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom suading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses,
and out oets, from morning till evening.

28:24 And some believed the things whpoken, and some
believed not.

28:25 And when they agreed not among th they departed, after
that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Hoy Esaias the
prophet unto our fathers, 28:26 Saying, Go unto this peopy,
Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shald not perceive: 28:27 For the heart of this people is waxed
gross, andars are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they
closed; lest they shith their eyes, and hear with their
ears, and understand with their heshould be converted, and I
should heal them.

28:28 Be it known therefou, that the salvation of God is
sent unto the Gentiles, and that theyr it.

28:29 And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and t reasoning among themselves.

28:30 And Paul dwelt two whole years inhired house, and
received all that came in unto him, 28:31 Preaching tm of
God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Chrisall confidence, no man forbidding him.




The Epistle of Paul the Apohe Romans


1:1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostted unto the gospel of God, 1:2 (Which he had promised afore by
his prthe holy scriptures,) 1:3 Concerning his Son Jesus
Christ our Lord, whe of the seed of David according to the
flesh; 1:4 And declared to be h power, according to
the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from: 1:5 By whom
we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to all nations, for his name: 1:6 Among whom are ye also the called
of J 1:7 To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to
be saints: Gracand peace from God our Father, and the Lord
Jesus Christ.

1:8 First,  God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your
faith is spoken of thhe whole world.

1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spiriospel
of his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always ins; 1:10 Making request, if by any means now at length I might
have a pjourney by the will of God to come unto you.

1:11 For I long to see yI may impart unto you some spiritual
gift, to the end ye may be establ12 That is, that I may be
comforted together with you by the mutual faof you and me.

1:13 Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that I
purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might havit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.

1:14 I am debtor botks, and to the Barbarians; both to
the wise, and to the unwise.

1:15 h as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you
that are at Rome:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power
o salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first,
and also to

1:17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to
 it is written, The just shall live by faith.

1:18 For the wrath of Galed from heaven against all
ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, we truth in
unrighteousness; 1:19 Because that which may be known of Goest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.

1:20 For the invisible him from the creation of the world
are clearly seen, being understoodings that are made, even
his eternal power and Godhead; so that they at excuse: 1:21
Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him noeither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and
theirheart was darkened.

1:22 Professing themselves to be wise, they becam:23 And
changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made orruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping
thinherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts
of therts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:
1:25 Who changeuth of God into a lie, and worshipped and
served the creature more thator, who is blessed for ever.
Amen.

1:26 For this cause God gave themle affections: for even
their women did change the natural use into ths against
nature: 1:27 And likewise also the men, leaving the natural woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working
tis unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of
their erro meet.

1:28 And even as they did not like to retain God in their know gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are
not ; 1:29 Being filled with all unrighteousness,
fornication, wickedness,ess, maliciousness; full of envy,
murder, debate, deceit, malignity; w1:30 Backbiters, haters
of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventorshings,
disobedient to parents, 1:31 Without understanding, covenantbreout natural affection, implacable, unmerciful: 1:32 Who knowing
the juGod, that they which commit such things are worthy of
death, not only e, but have pleasure in them that do them.

2:1 Therefore thou art ine man, whosoever thou art that
judgest: for wherein thou judgest anothedemnest thyself;
for thou that judgest doest the same things.

2:2 Butre that the judgment of God is according to truth
against them which cthings.

2:3 And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which dos, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of
God?  2:sest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance
and longsufferingng that the goodness of God leadeth thee
to repentance?  2:5 But afteress and impenitent heart
treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the th and
revelation of the righteous judgment of God; 2:6 Who will rendeman according to his deeds: 2:7 To them who by patient
continuance in  seek for glory and honour and immortality,
eternal life: 2:8 But untot are contentious, and do not obey
the truth, but obey unrighteousnession and wrath, 2:9
Tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man tha
the Jew first, and also of the Gentile; 2:10 But glory, honour, and
pevery man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to
the Gentiler there is no respect of persons with God.

2:12 For as many as have sut law shall also perish without
law: and as many as have sinned in thl be judged by the law;
2:13 (For not the hearers of the law are just  but the
doers of the law shall be justified.

2:14 For when the Gentihave not the law, do by nature the
things contained in the law, these,t the law, are a law unto
themselves: 2:15 Which shew the work of the n in their
hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their th
mean while accusing or else excusing one another;) 2:16 In the day
whall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to
my gospel.

d, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest
thy boast:18 And knowest his will, and approvest the things
that are more excelg instructed out of the law; 2:19 And art
confident that thou thyself e of the blind, a light of them
which are in darkness, 2:20 An instruce foolish, a teacher of
babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of in the law.

2:21 Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thoelf?
thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?  2:2t sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit
adultery? abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?  2:23
Thou that makest thf the law, through breaking the law
dishonourest thou God?  2:24 For t God is blasphemed among
the Gentiles through you, as it is written.

ircumcision verily profiteth, if thou keep the law: but if
thou be a b law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision.

2:26 Therefore if the sion keep the righteousness of the
law, shall not his uncircumcision bfor circumcision?  2:27
And shall not uncircumcision which is by naturulfil the law,
judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost trae
law?  2:28 For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is
tcision, which is outward in the flesh: 2:29 But he is a
Jew, which is ; and circumcision is that of the heart, in
the spirit, and not in theose praise is not of men, but of
God.

3:1 What advantage then hath thhat profit is there of
circumcision?  3:2 Much every way: chiefly, becunto them
were committed the oracles of God.

3:3 For what if some dide? shall their unbelief make the
faith of God without effect?  3:4 Godea, let God be true,
but every man a liar; as it is written, That thoue
justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what
shall wod unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as a
man) 3:6 God forbid how shall God judge the world?  3:7 For
if the truth of God hath morehrough my lie unto his glory;
why yet am I also judged as a sinner?  3ather, (as we be
slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we saymay come? whose damnation is just.

3:9 What then? are we better than ore proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin;
3:10 Awritten, There is none righteous, no, not one: 3:11
There is none thatis none that seeketh after
God.

3:12 They are all gone out of the waye together become
unprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have
used  poison of asps is under their lips: 3:14 Whose mouth
is full of cursierness: 3:15 Their feet are swift to shed
blood: 3:16 Destruction and in their ways: 3:17 And the way
of peace have they not known: 3:18 Theear of God before
their eyes.

3:19 Now we know that what things soevesaith, it saith to
them who are under the law: that every mouth may be and all
the world may become guilty before God.

3:20 Therefore by ththe law there shall no flesh be
justified in his sight: for by the lawwledge of sin.

3:21 But now the righteousness of God without the law ted,
being witnessed by the law and the prophets; 3:22 Even the
righteGod which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and
upon all them that r there is no difference: 3:23 For all
have sinned, and come short of ; 3:24 Being justified
freely by his grace through the redemption that Jesus:
3:25 Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faitlood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are
ough the forbearance of God; 3:26 To declare, I say, at this
time his ess: that he might be just, and the justifier of
him which believeth i
3:27 Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works?
Nthe law of faith.

3:28 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified ithout
the deeds of the law.

3:29 Is he the God of the Jews only? is o of the Gentiles?
Yes, of the Gentiles also: 3:30 Seeing it is one Goall
justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faito we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we
establi.

4:1 What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining th, hath found?  4:2 For if Abraham were justified by works, he
hath whlory; but not before God.

4:3 For what saith the scripture? Abraham b it was
counted unto him for righteousness.

4:4 Now to him that workereward not reckoned of grace, but
of debt.

4:5 But to him that worket believeth on him that justifieth
the ungodly, his faith is counted foness.

4:6 Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, uod imputeth righteousness without works, 4:7 Saying, Blessed are
they ities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.

4:8 Blessed is the mahe Lord will not impute sin.

4:9 Cometh this blessedness then upon thion only, or upon
the uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was r Abraham
for righteousness.

4:10 How was it then reckoned? when he wacision, or in
uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcisind he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the
righteousness oh which he had yet being uncircumcised: that
he might be the father ofthat believe, though they be not
circumcised; that righteousness mightd unto them also: 4:12
And the father of circumcision to them who are circumcision
only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of ourbraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised.

4:13 For the promise, tuld be the heir of the world, was not
to Abraham, or to his seed, throw, but through the
righteousness of faith.

4:14 For if they which are be heirs, faith is made void,
and the promise made of none effect: 4: the law worketh
wrath: for where no law is, there is no transgressionerefore it is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the end
the prome sure to all the seed; not to that only which is
of the law, but to tich is of the faith of Abraham; who is
the father of us all, 4:17 (As ten, I have made thee a
father of many nations,) before him whom he ben God, who
quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not they were.

4:18 Who against hope believed in hope, that he might becoher of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall
thy :19 And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now
dee was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness
of Sarah’0 He staggered not at the promise of God through
unbelief; but was strth, giving glory to God; 4:21 And being
fully persuaded that, what he ed, he was able also to
perform.

4:22 And therefore it was imputed torighteousness.

4:23 Now it was not written for his sake alone, that ied to
him; 4:24 But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we beim that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead; 4:25 Who was
deliveredfences, and was raised again for our
justification.

5:1 Therefore beied by faith, we have peace with God through
our Lord Jesus Christ: 5:2lso we have access by faith into
this grace wherein we stand, and rejoof the glory of God.

5:3 And not only so, but we glory in tribulationwing that
tribulation worketh patience; 5:4 And patience, experience; ence, hope: 5:5 And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of
God i in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto
us.

5:6 For whenut strength, in due time Christ died for
the ungodly.

5:7 For scarcelteous man will one die: yet peradventure
for a good man some would eveie.

5:8 But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we wereist died for us.

5:9 Much more then, being now justified by his bloodbe
saved from wrath through him.

5:10 For if, when we were enemies, wciled to God by the
death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we aved by
his life.

5:11 And not only so, but we also joy in God throug Jesus
Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement.

5:12 Wherey one man sin entered into the world, and death by
sin; and so death pall men, for that all have sinned: 5:13
(For until the law sin was in  but sin is not imputed when
there is no law.

5:14 Nevertheless deathrom Adam to Moses, even over them
that had not sinned after the simili’s transgression, who
is the figure of him that was to come.

5:15 Bthe offence, so also is the free gift. For if through
the offence of odead, much more the grace of God, and the
gift by grace, which is by osus Christ, hath abounded unto
many.

5:16 And not as it was by one thso is the gift: for the
judgment was by one to condemnation, but the f of many
offences unto justification.

5:17 For if by one man’s offeeigned by one; much more they
which receive abundance of grace and of f righteousness
shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)  5:18 There the
offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even shteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto
justification o:19 For as by one man’s disobedience many were made sinners, so by
tce of one shall many be made righteous.

5:20 Moreover the law entered offence might abound. But
where sin abounded, grace did much more abohat as sin hath
reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through ess
unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

6:1 What shall we sayl we continue in sin, that grace may
abound?  6:2 God forbid. How shal are dead to sin, live any
longer therein?  6:3 Know ye not, that so m were baptized
into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?  6:4 Th are
buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raom the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should
walk inf life.

6:5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of he shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection: 6:6 Knowing
this,ld man is crucified with him, that the body of sin
might be destroyed,forth we should not serve sin.

6:7 For he that is dead is freed from Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live
withKnowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no
more; death ha dominion over him.

6:10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: at he
liveth, he liveth unto God.

6:11 Likewise reckon ye also yoursedead indeed unto sin,
but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lordt not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should
obey it s thereof.

6:13 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrig
unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive fromand your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.

6:14 For st have dominion over you: for ye are not under
the law, but under gracat then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but
under grarbid.

6:16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of
obed righteousness?  6:17 But God be thanked, that ye were
the servants ofye have obeyed from the heart that form of
doctrine which was delivere18 Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of
righteousnI speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your
fleshe have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and
to iniquity uny; even so now yield your members servants to
righteousness unto holin For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from
righteousnesst fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now
ashamed?  for tthose things is death.

6:22 But now being made free from sin, and becnts to God, ye
have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting 3 For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal
life ts Christ our Lord.

7:1 Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them thw,)
how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth?  7woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband
so longeth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed from
the law of her huso then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another
man, sh called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead,
she is free from th that she is no adulteress, though she be
married to another man.

7:4 my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the
body of Christshould be married to another, even to him who
is raised from the dead,hould bring forth fruit unto God.

7:5 For when we were in the flesh,  of sins, which were by
the law, did work in our members to bring fortnto death.

7:6 But now we are delivered from the law, that being deade
were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in thef the letter.

7:7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid.d not
known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the id, Thou shalt not covet.

7:8 But sin, taking occasion by the commandght in me all
manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dea I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment
came, sin nd I died.

7:10 And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I founto death.

7:11 For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceivey
it slew me.

7:12 Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment hol,
and good.

7:13 Was then that which is good made death unto me? God t
sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is
 sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.

7:14 For we kn law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold
under sin.

7:15 For that whillow not: for what I would, that do I not;
but what I hate, that do I.hen I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that
it is gooow then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.

7:18w that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good
thing: for to wient with me; but how to perform that which
is good I find not.

7:19 Fod that I would I do not: but the evil which I would
not, that I do.

f I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin
that dwel.

7:21 I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present7:22 For I delight in the law of God after the inward man: 7:23 But I
 law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and
bringing mivity to the law of sin which is in my members.

7:24 O wretched man t who shall deliver me from the body of
this death?  7:25 I thank God ts Christ our Lord. So then
with the mind I myself serve the law of Godhe flesh the
law of sin.

8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation th are in Christ
Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spi For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me
free fw of sin and death.

8:3 For what the law could not do, in that it wasgh the
flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh,n, condemned sin in the flesh: 8:4 That the righteousness of the
law mfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after
the Spirit.

8:5hat are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh;
but they that the Spirit the things of the Spirit.

8:6 For to be carnally minded it to be spiritually minded
is life and peace.

8:7 Because the carnal mity against God: for it is not
subject to the law of God, neither ind

8:8 So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.

8:9 But yn the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the
Spirit of God dwell  if any man have not the Spirit of
Christ, he is none of his.

8:10 Anst be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the
Spirit is life  righteousness.

8:11 But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus fr dwell
in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quickal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.

8:12 Therefore, brethreebtors, not to the flesh, to live
after the flesh.

8:13 For if ye livhe flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through
the Spirit do mortify the debody, ye shall live.

8:14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God the sons of
God.

8:15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondageut
ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, FathThe Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are
the chiod: 8:17 And if children, then heirs; heirs of God,
and joint-heirs wiif so be that we suffer with him, that we
may be also glorified togethFor I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not
worthy ted with the glory which shall be revealed in us.

8:19 For the earneston of the creature waiteth for the
manifestation of the sons of God.

e creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but
by reason ofth subjected the same in hope, 8:21 Because the
creature itself also sivered from the bondage of corruption
into the glorious liberty of the of God.

8:22 For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travain together until now.

8:23 And not only they, but ourselves also, whie firstfruits
of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves,r
the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.

8:24 For we are spe: but hope that is seen is not hope: for
what a man seeth, why doth  for?  8:25 But if we hope for
that we see not, then do we with patienor it.

8:26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we at we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh
intercus with groanings which cannot be uttered.

8:27 And he that searcheths knoweth what is the mind of the
Spirit, because he maketh intercessisaints according to the
will of God.

8:28 And we know that all thingsether for good to them that
love God, to them who are the called accors purpose.

8:29 For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate tomed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn
among many
8:30 Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also
glorifiedat shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can
be aga:32 He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him
up for us all, h not with him also freely give us all
things?  8:33 Who shall lay any  charge of God’s elect? It
is God that justifieth.

8:34 Who is he teth? It is Christ that died, yea rather,
that is risen again, who is ee right hand of God, who also
maketh intercession for us.

8:35 Who shte us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation,
or distress, or pers famine, or nakedness, or peril, or
sword?  8:36 As it is written, Forwe are killed all the day
long; we are accounted as sheep for the slau37 Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him
ths.

8:38 For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels,ipalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
8:39 Nonor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to
separate us from t God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

9:1 I say the truth in Chrisnot, my conscience also bearing
me witness in the Holy Ghost, 9:2 Thatrow in my heart.

9:3 For I could wish that myself were accursed from my kinsmen according to the flesh: 9:4 Who are Israelites;
to whom per and the glory, and the covenants, and
the giving of the law, and the  God, and the promises; 9:5
Whose are the fathers, and of whom as conclesh Christ
came, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.

9:6 Nothe word of God hath taken none effect. For they are
not all Israel, wf Israel: 9:7 Neither, because they are the
seed of Abraham, are they en: but, In Isaac shall thy seed
be called.

9:8 That is, They which aldren of the flesh, these are not
the children of God: but the childreomise are counted for
the seed.

9:9 For this is the word of promise, me will I come, and
Sarah shall have a son.

9:10 And not only this; bbecca also had conceived by one,
even by our father Isaac; 9:11 (For tn being not yet born,
neither having done any good or evil, that the pGod
according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that
c12 It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the
younger.

9:13 As ien, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.

9:14 What shall we saythere unrighteousness with God? God
forbid.

9:15 For he saith to Moseercy on whom I will have
mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I wpassion.

9:16 So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that ut of God that sheweth mercy.

9:17 For the scripture saith unto Pharafor this same purpose
have I raised thee up, that I might shew my poweand that my
name might be declared throughout all the earth.

9:18 Thehe mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he
will he hardeneth.

919 Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who
hatd his will?  9:20 Nay but, O man, who art thou that
repliest against Gthe thing formed say to him that formed
it, Why hast thou made me thusth not the potter power over
the clay, of the same lump to make one veonour, and another
unto dishonour?  9:22 What if God, willing to shew  and to
make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessth fitted to destruction: 9:23 And that he might make known the
richesglory on the vessels of mercy, which he had afore
prepared unto glory,s, whom he hath called, not of the
Jews only, but also of the Gentilessaith also in Osee, I
will call them my people, which were not my peopr beloved,
which was not beloved.

9:26 And it shall come to pass, thaace where it was said
unto them, Ye are not my people; there shall the the
children of the living God.

9:27 Esaias also crieth concerning Iugh the number of the
children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a all be
saved: 9:28 For he will finish the work, and cut it short in
ri: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth.

9:29 And as before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us
a seed, we had been asd been made like unto Gomorrha.

9:30 What shall we say then? That the which followed not
after righteousness, have attained to righteousnese
righteousness which is of faith.

9:31 But Israel, which followed af of righteousness, hath
not attained to the law of righteousness.

9:3? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by
the works of or they stumbled at that stumblingstone; 9:33
As it is written, BeholdSion a stumblingstone and rock of
offence: and whosoever believeth on not be ashamed.

10:1 Brethren, my heart’s desire and prayer to God  is, that
they might be saved.

10:2 For I bear them record that they l of God, but not
according to knowledge.

10:3 For they being ignorans righteousness, and going about
to establish their own righteousnesssubmitted themselves
unto the righteousness of God.

10:4 For Christ iof the law for righteousness to every one
that believeth.

10:5 For Mobeth the righteousness which is of the law, That
the man which doeth ts shall live by them.

10:6 But the righteousness which is of faith spthis wise,
Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (thating Christ down from above:) 10:7 Or, Who shall descend into the
deep?to bring up Christ again from the dead.)  10:8 But
what saith it? The gh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy
heart: that is, the word of faiwe preach; 10:9 That if thou
shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jeshalt believe in
thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, th
saved.

10:10 For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; ane mouth confession is made unto salvation.

10:11 For the scripture saever believeth on him shall not be
ashamed.

10:12 For there is no diftween the Jew and the Greek: for
the same Lord over all is rich unto aall upon him.

10:13 For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lore
saved.

10:14 How then shall they call on him in whom they have not and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and howy hear without a preacher?  10:15 And how shall they preach,
except th as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of
them that preach the peace, and bring glad tidings of good
things!  10:16 But they have notd the gospel. For Esaias
saith, Lord, who hath believed our report?  1en faith cometh
by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.

10:18 Butve they not heard? Yes verily, their sound went
into all the earth, ans unto the ends of the world.

10:19 But I say, Did not Israel know? F saith, I will
provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, andion I will anger you.

10:20 But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was them that
sought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not.

10:21 But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth mto a disobedient and gainsaying people.

11:1 I say then, Hath God cass people? God forbid. For I also
am an Israelite, of the seed of Abrahe tribe of Benjamin.

11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he Wot ye not
what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercessi
against Israel saying, 11:3 Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and
n thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.

11:4 But the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to
myself seven thousand mve not bowed the knee to the image of
Baal.

11:5 Even so then at thisime also there is a remnant
according to the election of grace.

11:6 race, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace is
no more grace. Be of works, then it is no more grace:
otherwise work is no more work.
 then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for;
but the eleobtained it, and the rest were blinded.

11:8 (According as it is writath given them the spirit of
slumber, eyes that they should not see, at they should not
hear;) unto this day.

11:9 And David saith, Let thee made a snare, and a trap, and
a stumblingblock, and a recompence unt:10 Let their eyes be
darkened, that they may not see, and bow down thway.

11:11 I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? God
 rather through their fall salvation is come unto the
Gentiles, for toem to jealousy.

11:12 Now if the fall of them be the riches of the wohe
diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their 11:13 For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the
apostle of th, I magnify mine office: 11:14 If by any means
I may provoke to emulathich are my flesh, and might save
some of them.

11:15 For if the cast them be the reconciling of the world,
what shall the receiving of the life from the dead?  11:16
For if the firstfruit be holy, the lump is and if the root
be holy, so are the branches.

11:17 And if some of t be broken off, and thou, being a
wild olive tree, wert graffed in amod with them partakest
of the root and fatness of the olive tree; 11:18against the
branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, bu
thee.

11:19 Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that Igraffed in.

11:20 Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, andest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear: 11:21 For if God
spared notl branches, take heed lest he also spare not
thee.

11:22 Behold thereoodness and severity of God: on them which
fell, severity; but toward ness, if thou continue in his
goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be c:23 And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be
graff God is able to graff them in again.

11:24 For if thou wert cut out oe tree which is wild by
nature, and wert graffed contrary to nature inlive tree:
how much more shall these, which be the natural branches, bto their own olive tree?  11:25 For I would not, brethren, that ye
shoorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own
conceits; thss in part is happened to Israel, until the
fulness of the Gentiles be11:26 And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shall
 Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from
Jacob: 11:27is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away
their sins.

11:28 Ashe gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but
as touching the electire beloved for the father’s sakes.

11:29 For the gifts and calling without repentance.

11:30 For as ye in times past have not believed Gve now
obtained mercy through their unbelief: 11:31 Even so have thesenot believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.

11:d hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have
mercy upon aO the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of
God!  hochable are his judgments, and his ways past finding
out!  11:34 For whwn the mind of the Lord? or who hath been
his counsellor?  11:35 Or whiven to him, and it shall be
recompensed unto him again?  11:36 For ofrough him, and to
him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amenbeseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye
presenes a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God,
which is your reasonce.

12:2 And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed byng of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and
acceptable, t, will of God.

12:3 For I say, through the grace given unto me, to eat is
among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the
measure

12:4 For as we have many members in one body, and all members have ne office: 12:5 So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and
every onone of another.

12:6 Having then gifts differing according to the gragiven
to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proporith; 12:7 Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering: or he that
teaceaching; 12:8 Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he
that giveth, let with simplicity; he that ruleth, with
diligence; he that sheweth mercheerfulness.

12:9 Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that whic
cleave to that which is good.

12:10 Be kindly affectioned one to anorotherly love; in
honour preferring one another; 12:11 Not slothful in fervent
in spirit; serving the Lord; 12:12 Rejoicing in hope; patientation; continuing instant in prayer; 12:13 Distributing to the
necessits; given to hospitality.

12:14 Bless them which persecute you: blesse not.

12:15 Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them th12:16 Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things,
bud to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.

12:17 Recomo man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the
sight of all men.

1e possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with
all men.

12:beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place
unto wrath: for en, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith
the Lord.

12:20 Therefore nemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give
him drink: for in so doing t heap coals of fire on his head.

12:21 Be not overcome of evil, but oil with good.

13:1 Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. is no
power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.

13:2 therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance
of God: and thesist shall receive to themselves damnation.

13:3 For rulers are not agood works, but to the evil. Wilt
thou then not be afraid of the powerwhich is good, and thou
shalt have praise of the same: 13:4 For he is r of God to
thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraibeareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a
revengute wrath upon him that doeth evil.

13:5 Wherefore ye must needs be s only for wrath, but also
for conscience sake.

13:6 For for this causibute also: for they are God’s
ministers, attending continually upon thing.

13:7 Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribcustom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour.

13:8n any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth
another hath he law.

13:9 For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt
not co there be any other commandment, it is briefly
comprehended in this say, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
thyself.

13:10 Love worketh no ileighbour: therefore love is the
fulfilling of the law.

13:11 And thathe time, that now it is high time to awake
out of sleep: for now is oun nearer than when we believed.

13:12 The night is far spent, the dayd: let us therefore
cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on of light.

13:13 Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting aness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and
envying.

13 ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for
the flesh, toe lusts thereof.

14:1 Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but nful
disputations.

14:2 For one believeth that he may eat all things: o is
weak, eateth herbs.

14:3 Let not him that eateth despise him tha and let not
him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath m.

14:4 Who art thou that judgest another man’s servant? to his own standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is
able to mand.

14:5 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth . Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.

14:6 He that rega day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he
that regardeth not the day, t he doth not regard it. He that
eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he givhanks; and he that
eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth G

14:7 For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself.
r whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die,
we die urd: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the
Lord’s.

14:9 For d Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he
might be Lord both  and living.

14:10 But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost t
nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat o14:11 For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall
b and every tongue shall confess to God.

14:12 So then every one of use account of himself to God.

14:13 Let us not therefore judge one anoore: but judge this
rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occl in his
brother’s way.

14:14 I know, and am persuaded by the Lord  there is
nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thinclean, to him it is unclean.

14:15 But if thy brother be grieved wit, now walkest thou
not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for st died.

14:16 Let not then your good be evil spoken of: 14:17 For thom
of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joyly Ghost.

14:18 For he that in these things serveth Christ is accepta
and approved of men.

14:19 Let us therefore follow after the things e for peace,
and things wherewith one may edify another.

14:20 For menot the work of God. All things indeed are
pure; but it is evil for tho eateth with offence.

14:21 It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to , nor any
thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is m14:22 Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he thath not himself in that thing which he alloweth.

14:23 And he that doubmned if he eat, because he eateth not
of faith: for whatsoever is not s sin.

15:1 We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of  and not to please ourselves.

15:2 Let every one of us please his neihis good to
edification.

15:3 For even Christ pleased not himself; bu written, The
reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.

15:soever things were written aforetime were written for our
learning, thugh patience and comfort of the scriptures might
have hope.

15:5 Now f patience and consolation grant you to be
likeminded one toward anothng to Christ Jesus: 15:6 That ye
may with one mind and one mouth gloriFather of our
Lord Jesus Christ.

15:7 Wherefore receive ye one anotheGod.

15:8 Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcistruth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:
15:9 And Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is
written, For this cl confess to thee among the Gentiles, and
sing unto thy name.

15:10 Aice, ye Gentiles, with his people.

15:11 And again, Praise the Lord, ntiles; and laud him, all
ye people.

15:12 And again, Esaias saith, Tl be a root of Jesse, and he
that shall rise to reign over the Gentileshall the Gentiles
trust.

15:13 Now the God of hope fill you with alleace in
believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of thGhost.

15:14 And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, thate full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish
o.

15:15 Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto y sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is
given to m15:16 That I should be the minister of Jesus
Christ to the Gentiles, mthe gospel of God, that the
offering up of the Gentiles might be accepg sanctified by
the Holy Ghost.

15:17 I have therefore whereof I may s Christ in
those things which pertain to God.

15:18 For I will not d of any of those things which Christ
hath not wrought by me, to make ts obedient, by word and
deed, 15:19 Through mighty signs and wonders, r of the
Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto II have fully preached the gospel of Christ.

15:20 Yea, so have I striach the gospel, not where Christ
was named, lest I should build upon a’s foundation: 15:21
But as it is written, To whom he was not spokenshall see:
and they that have not heard shall understand.

15:22 For walso I have been much hindered from coming to
you.

15:23 But now havi in these parts, and having a great
desire these many years to come un4 Whensoever I take my
journey into Spain, I will come to you: for I t you in my
journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, ife
somewhat filled with your company.

15:25 But now I go unto Jerusaleter unto the saints.

15:26 For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and ake a
certain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem. hath pleased them verily; and their debtors they are. For if
the Gentbeen made partakers of their spiritual things, their
duty is also to mto them in carnal things.

15:28 When therefore I have performed this,ealed to them
this fruit, I will come by you into Spain.

15:29 And I hat, when I come unto you, I shall come in the
fulness of the blessingpel of Christ.

15:30 Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus sake,
and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me ayers to God for me; 15:31 That I may be delivered from them
that do nin Judaea; and that my service which I have for
Jerusalem may be accepsaints; 15:32 That I may come unto
you with joy by the will of God, an you be refreshed.

15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
mend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the
church whichnchrea: 16:2 That ye receive her in the Lord, as
becometh saints, and ssist her in whatsoever business she
hath need of you: for she hath beourer of many, and of myself
also.

16:3 Greet Priscilla and Aquila myin Christ Jesus: 16:4 Who
have for my life laid down their own necks:  not only I give
thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.

1se greet the church that is in their house. Salute my
well-beloved Epawho is the firstfruits of Achaia unto Christ.

16:6 Greet Mary, who beh labour on us.

16:7 Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my isoners,
who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ b
16:8 Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.

16:9 Salute Urbane, our hhrist, and Stachys my beloved.

16:10 Salute Apelles approved in Christhem which are of
Aristobulus’ household.

16:11 Salute Herodion my reet them that be of the household
of Narcissus, which are in the Lordalute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the
belovewhich laboured much in the Lord.

16:13 Salute Rufus chosen in the Lormother and mine.

16:14 Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, nd the
brethren which are with them.

16:15 Salute Philologus, and Julnd his sister, and
Olympas, and all the saints which are with them.

1te one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ
salute you.

I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and
offences o the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid
them.

16:18 For they such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but
their own belly; and by good fair speeches deceive the
hearts of the simple.

16:19 For your obedime abroad unto all men. I am glad
therefore on your behalf: but yet I  you wise unto that
which is good, and simple concerning evil.

16:20 od of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly.
The grace of oesus Christ be with you. Amen.

16:21 Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucason, and Sosipater,
my kinsmen, salute you.

16:22 I Tertius, who wroistle, salute you in the Lord.

16:23 Gaius mine host, and of the whol saluteth you. Erastus
the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Qbrother.

16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Am Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my
gospel, aof Jesus Christ, according to the revelation
of the mystery, which waset since the world began, 16:26 But
now is made manifest, and by the sf the prophets, according
to the commandment of the everlasting God, mo all nations
for the obedience of faith: 16:27 To God only wise, be gh
Jesus Christ for ever. Amen.




The First Epistle of Paul the ApostCorinthians


1:1 Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ throughof
God, and Sosthenes our brother, 1:2 Unto the church of God which is, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be
saints, wit in every place call upon the name of Jesus
Christ our Lord, both thes: 1:3 Grace be unto you, and
peace, from God our Father, and from thes Christ.

1:4 I thank my God always on your behalf, for the grace of s given you by Jesus Christ; 1:5 That in every thing ye are enriched
ball utterance, and in all knowledge; 1:6 Even as the
testimony of Chrifirmed in you: 1:7 So that ye come behind
in no gift; waiting for the our Lord Jesus Christ: 1:8 Who
shall also confirm you unto the end, thbe blameless in the
day of our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:9 God is faithfule were called unto the fellowship of his
Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

1seech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus
Christ, that ye all same thing, and that there be no
divisions among you; but that ye be joined together in the
same mind and in the same judgment.

1:11 For i declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them
which are of the house hat there are contentions among you.

1:12 Now this I say, that every  saith, I am of Paul; and I
of Apollos; and I of Cephas; and I of Chris Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye
baptized in t Paul?  1:14 I thank God that I baptized none
of you, but Crispus and 15 Lest any should say that I had
baptized in mine own name.

1:16 And also the household of Stephanas: besides, I know
not whether I baptizer.

1:17 For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel:isdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none
effecthe preaching of the cross is to them that perish
foolishness; but untore saved it is the power of God.

1:19 For it is written, I will destrom of the wise, and
will bring to nothing the understanding of the pru0 Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of
thith not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?  1:21
For after thatdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God,
it pleased God by the foo preaching to save them that
believe.

1:22 For the Jews require a sigGreeks seek after wisdom:
1:23 But we preach Christ crucified, unto thtumblingblock,
and unto the Greeks foolishness; 1:24 But unto them whilled,
both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of5 Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the
weakness oronger than men.

1:26 For ye see your calling, brethren, how that notmen
after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: 1:27th chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise;
and Gosen the weak things of the world to confound the
things which are mighnd base things of the world, and things
which are despised, hath God c and things which are not, to
bring to nought things that are: 1:29 Thh should glory in
his presence.

1:30 But of him are ye in Christ JesuGod is made unto us
wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and: 1:31
That, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him gloLord.

2:1 And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellench or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.

2:2 For I dot to know any thing among you, save Jesus
Christ, and him crucified.
 was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much
trembling.

2:4 Anand my preaching was not with enticing words of
man’s wisdom, but inion of the Spirit and of power: 2:5
That your faith should not stand im of men, but in the
power of God.

2:6 Howbeit we speak wisdom among are perfect: yet not the
wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of tthat come to
nought: 2:7 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, n wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory: 2:8
Whic princes of this world knew: for had they known it,
they would not havd the Lord of glory.

2:9 But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nord, neither
have entered into the heart of man, the things which God had
for them that love him.

2:10 But God hath revealed them unto us by : for the Spirit
searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.

2t man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man
which is in so the things of God knoweth no man, but the
Spirit of God.

2:12 Now eived, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit
which is of God; tht know the things that are freely given
to us of God.

2:13 Which thinspeak, not in the words which man’s wisdom
teacheth, but which the Heacheth; comparing spiritual
things with spiritual.

2:14 But the natueiveth not the things of the Spirit of
God: for they are foolishness uither can he know them,
because they are spiritually discerned.

2:15  is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is
judged of no man.
who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct
him?  But wemind of Christ.

3:1 And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto, but
as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ.

3:2 I have fed yolk, and not with meat: for hitherto ye were
not able to bear it, neithare ye able.

3:3 For ye are yet carnal: for whereas there is among yo and
strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk as men?  3:4 Fe saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye
not carnalthen is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers
by whom ye believed, eLord gave to every man?  3:6 I have
planted, Apollos watered; but God ncrease.

3:7 So then neither is he that planteth any thing, neither hreth; but God that giveth the increase.

3:8 Now he that planteth and tereth are one: and every man
shall receive his own reward according tabour.

3:9 For we are labourers together with God: ye are God’s hus
are God’s building.

3:10 According to the grace of God which is gias a wise
masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildn. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon.

3:11 For otion can no man lay than that is laid, which is
Jesus Christ.

3:12 Nown build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious
stones, wood, hay,3:13 Every man’s work shall be made
manifest: for the day shall declcause it shall be revealed
by fire; and the fire shall try every manwhat sort it is.

3:14 If any man’s work abide which he hath built the shall
receive a reward.

3:15 If any man’s work shall be burned, uffer loss: but he
himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire.

3:16 Knthat ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of
God dwelleth in  If any man defile the temple of God, him
shall God destroy; for the tod is holy, which temple ye are.

3:18 Let no man deceive himself. If ng you seemeth to be
wise in this world, let him become a fool, that hise.

3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For in, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness.

3:20 And again, The Lothe thoughts of the wise, that they
are vain.

3:21 Therefore let no mn men. For all things are yours;
3:22 Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cepe world, or life, or
death, or things present, or things to come; all :23 And
ye are Christ’s; and Christ is God’s.

4:1 Let a man so ac, as of the ministers of Christ, and
stewards of the mysteries of God.over it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.

4:3 Buit is a very small thing that I should be judged of
you, or of man’syea, I judge not mine own self.

4:4 For I know nothing by myself; yetereby justified: but
he that judgeth me is the Lord.

4:5 Therefore ju before the time, until the Lord come, who
both will bring to light thhings of darkness, and will make
manifest the counsels of the hearts: hall every man have
praise of God.

4:6 And these things, brethren, I figure transferred to
myself and to Apollos for your sakes; that ye miin us not to
think of men above that which is written, that no one of fed
up for one against another.

4:7 For who maketh thee to differ frohat hast thou
that thou didst not receive? now if thou didst receive it
thou glory, as if thou hadst not received it?  4:8 Now ye are full,
 rich, ye have reigned as kings without us: and I would to
God ye did t we also might reign with you.

4:9 For I think that God hath set forpostles last, as it
were appointed to death: for we are made a spectace world,
and to angels, and to men.

4:10 We are fools for Christ’s ye are wise in Christ; we are
weak, but ye are strong; ye are honourab are despised.

4:11 Even unto this present hour we both hunger, and t are
naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwellingplace; 4:12 , working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being
persecuteffer it: 4:13 Being defamed, we intreat: we are made
as the filth of tand are the offscouring of all things unto
this day.

4:14 I write notings to shame you, but as my beloved sons I
warn you.

4:15 For thoughn thousand instructers in Christ, yet have
ye not many fathers: for insus I have begotten you through
the gospel.

4:16 Wherefore I beseech  followers of me.

4:17 For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, beloved
son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into rememmy ways which be in Christ, as I teach every where in every church.

4e are puffed up, as though I would not come to you.

4:19 But I will c shortly, if the Lord will, and will know,
not the speech of them whiced up, but the power.

4:20 For the kingdom of God is not in word, but

4:21 What will ye? shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love, andrit of meekness?  5:1 It is reported commonly that there is
fornicatiou, and such fornication as is not so much as named
among the Gentiles,should have his father’s wife.

5:2 And ye are puffed up, and have nmourned, that he that
hath done this deed might be taken away from amo:3 For I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have
judged as though I were present, concerning him that hath so
done this deed,e name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are
gathered together, and myith the power of our Lord Jesus
Christ, 5:5 To deliver such an one untr the destruction of
the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the daord Jesus.

5:6 Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leneth the whole lump?  5:7 Purge out therefore the old leaven,
that yeew lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our
passover is sacrifi: 5:8 Therefore let us keep the feast,
not with old leaven, neither wien of malice and wickedness;
but with the unleavened bread of sincerit

5:9 I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators:
 this world, or with
the covetous, or extortioners, or with idolaters;eds go out of the world.

5:11 But now I have written unto you not to if any man
that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or arailer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such an one no not
to eFor what have I to do to judge them also that are without? do not
ye jthat are within?  5:13 But them that are without God
judgeth. Therefor from among yourselves that wicked person.

6:1 Dare any of you, havin against another, go to law before
the unjust, and not before the sain ye not know that the
saints shall judge the world? and if the world sudged by you,
are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?  6:3 Knowt
we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this lifhen ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set
them to je least esteemed in the church.

6:5 I speak to your shame. Is it so,  is not a wise man
among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge 
brethren?  6:6 But brother goeth to law with brother, and that beforeievers.

6:7 Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, becauseaw one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not
ra yourselves to be defrauded?  6:8 Nay, ye do wrong, and
defraud, and tethren.

6:9 Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kiod?  Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor
adulterefeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind,
6:10 Nor thieves, no drunkards, nor revilers, nor
extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom 1 And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are
sanctified,are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by
the Spirit of our 2 All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient:
all lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the
power of any.

6:1or the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall
destroy both it aw the body is not for fornication, but for
the Lord; and the Lord for 6:14 And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us
bower.

6:15 Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? sh take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an
harlot? G

6:16 What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one
btwo, saith he, shall be one flesh.

6:17 But he that is joined unto thpirit.

6:18 Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without tut he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.

6:19 ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost
which is in you,ave of God, and ye are not your own?  6:20
For ye are bought with a prore glorify God in your body,
and in your spirit, which are God’s.

ncerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me: It is good for
a man nota woman.

7:2 Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have h, and let every woman have her own husband.

7:3 Let the husband rendewife due benevolence: and likewise
also the wife unto the husband.

7: hath not power of her own body, but the husband: and
likewise also thhath not power of his own body, but the
wife.

7:5 Defraud ye not one  except it be with consent for a
time, that ye may give yourselves to nd prayer; and come
together again, that Satan tempt you not for your y.

7:6 But I speak this by permission, and not of commandment.

7:7 F that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath
his proper gifne after this manner, and another after that.

7:8 I say therefore to ied and widows, It is good for them
if they abide even as I.

7:9 But nnot contain, let them marry: for it is better to
marry than to burn.
unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not
the wife er husband: 7:11 But and if she depart, let her
remain unmarried or beusband: and let not the
husband put away his wife.

7:12 But to the re, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife
that believeth not, and she to dwell with him, let him not
put her away.

7:13 And the woman whichusband that believeth not, and if he
be pleased to dwell with her, leleave him.

7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wifenbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children
ut now are they holy.

7:15 But if the unbelieving depart, let him depother or a
sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath caleace.

7:16 For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy
wife?  7:17 Bhath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath
called every one, so lk. And so ordain I in all churches.

7:18 Is any man called being circt him not become
uncircumcised. Is any called in uncircumcision? let hcircumcised.

7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothe
keeping of the commandments of God.

7:20 Let every man abide in theing wherein he was called.

7:21 Art thou called being a servant? care but if thou
mayest be made free, use it rather.

7:22 For he that is the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord’s
freeman: likewise also he tled, being free, is Christ’s
servant.

7:23 Ye are bought with a priye the servants of men.

7:24 Brethren, let every man, wherein he is crein abide with
God.

7:25 Now concerning virgins I have no commandmenLord: yet I
give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lfaithful.

7:26 I suppose therefore that this is good for the present I
say, that it is good for a man so to be.

7:27 Art thou bound unto ak not to be loosed. Art thou
loosed from a wife? seek not a wife.

7:2f thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin
marry, she hath noevertheless such shall have trouble in
the flesh: but I spare you.

7:brethren, the time is short: it remaineth, that
both they that have wi though they had none; 7:30 And they
that weep, as though they wept no that rejoice, as though
they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as thoussessed not;
7:31 And they that use this world, as not abusing it: forn
of this world passeth away.

7:32 But I would have you without caref that is unmarried
careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how e the
Lord: 7:33 But he that is married careth for the things that arerld, how he may please his wife.

7:34 There is difference also betweend a virgin. The
unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord, thbe
holy both in body and in spirit: but she that is married careth fors of the world, how she may please her husband.

7:35 And this I speakown profit; not that I may cast a snare
upon you, but for that which ind that ye may attend upon
the Lord without distraction.

7:36 But if hink that he behaveth himself uncomely toward his
virgin, if she pass of her age, and need so require, let
him do what he will, he sinneth nem marry.

7:37 Nevertheless he that standeth stedfast in his heart, hcessity, but hath power over his own will, and hath so decreed in
his  he will keep his virgin, doeth well.

7:38 So then he that giveth herge doeth well; but he that
giveth her not in marriage doeth better.

7fe is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth; but
if her husba she is at liberty to be married to whom she
will; only in the Lord.

e is happier if she so abide, after my judgment: and I
think also thate Spirit of God.

8:1 Now as touching things offered unto idols, we knll
have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth.

8:2 Anan think that he knoweth any thing, he knoweth nothing
yet as he ought8:3 But if any man love God, the same is known of him.

8:4 As concernore the eating of those things that are
offered in sacrifice unto idolthat an idol is nothing in
the world, and that there is none other God8:5 For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in
there be gods many, and lords many,) 8:6 But to us there is
but one Goher, of whom are all things, and we in him; and
one Lord Jesus Christ,re all things, and we by him.

8:7 Howbeit there is not in every man tge: for some with
conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a th unto
an idol; and their conscience being weak is defiled.

8:8 But meth us not to God: for neither, if we eat, are we
the better; neither, not, are we the worse.

8:9 But take heed lest by any means this liber become a
stumblingblock to them that are weak.

8:10 For if any man sich hast knowledge sit at meat in the
idol’s temple, shall not the cf him which is weak be
emboldened to eat those things which are offere; 8:11 And
through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whd?  8:12 But when ye sin so against the brethren, and wound their
weake, ye sin against Christ.

8:13 Wherefore, if meat make my brother to ill eat no flesh
while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to o Am I not an apostle? am I not free? have I not seen Jesus Christ
our ot ye my work in the Lord?  9:2 If I be not an apostle
unto others, yeess I am to you: for the seal of mine
apostleship are ye in the Lord.
nswer to them that do examine me is this, 9:4 Have we not
power to eatink?  9:5 Have we not power to lead about a
sister, a wife, as well asstles, and as the brethren of the
Lord, and Cephas?  9:6 Or I only andhave not we power to
forbear working?  9:7 Who goeth a warfare any timn charges?
who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit thereofeedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?  9:8 Say I
ts as a man? or saith not the law the same also?  9:9 For it
is writtenw of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the
ox that treadeth ou Doth God take care for oxen?  9:10 Or
saith he it altogether for our r our sakes, no doubt, this is
written: that he that ploweth should ple; and that he that
thresheth in hope should be partaker of his hope.
have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if
we shall r things?  9:12 If others be partakers of this
power over you, are not Nevertheless we have not used this
power; but suffer all things, lest hinder the gospel of
Christ.

9:13 Do ye not know that they which mini holy things live of
the things of the temple? and they which wait at are
partakers with the altar?  9:14 Even so hath the Lord ordained thah preach the gospel should live of the gospel.

9:15 But I have used nse things: neither have I written
these things, that it should be so de: for it were better
for me to die, than that any man should make my id.

9:16 For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: ty is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the
gospel!   I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but
if against my will, aon of the gospel is committed unto me.

9:18 What is my reward then? V when I preach the gospel, I
may make the gospel of Christ without cha abuse not my
power in the gospel.

9:19 For though I be free from allave I made myself servant
unto all, that I might gain the more.

9:20 he Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews;
to them that araw, as under the law, that I might gain
them that are under the law; 9m that are without law, as
without law, (being not without law to God,the law to
Christ,) that I might gain them that are without law.

9:22ak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak: I am
made all things  that I might by all means save some.

9:23 And this I do for the gospe, that I might be partaker
thereof with you.

9:24 Know ye not that tun in a race run all, but one
receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may9:25 And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all
tthey do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an
incorruptible.

9:ore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one
that beateth th7 But I keep under my body, and bring it into
subjection: lest that by when I have preached to others, I
myself should be a castaway.

10:1 brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how
that all our fatnder the cloud, and all passed through the
sea; 10:2 And were all baptoses in the cloud and in the
sea; 10:3 And did all eat the same spirit10:4 And did all
drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of thal Rock
that followed them: and that Rock was Christ.

10:5 But with maod was not well pleased: for they were
overthrown in the wilderness.

hese things were our examples, to the intent we should not
lust after , as they also lusted.

10:7 Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of t is written,
The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to plaNeither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and
fellay three and twenty thousand.

10:9 Neither let us tempt Christ, as so also tempted, and
were destroyed of serpents.

10:10 Neither murmur y of them also murmured, and were
destroyed of the destroyer.

10:11 No things happened unto them for ensamples: and they
are written for ourn, upon whom the ends of the world are
come.

10:12 Wherefore let him th he standeth take heed lest he
fall.

10:13 There hath no temptation but such as is common to man:
but God is faithful, who will not suffee tempted above that
ye are able; but will with the temptation also ma escape,
that ye may be able to bear it.

10:14 Wherefore, my dearly bee from idolatry.

10:15 I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.
 cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of
the blood  The bread which we break, is it not the communion
of the body of Chri For we being many are one bread, and one
body: for we are all partakee bread.

10:18 Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat rifices partakers of the altar?  10:19 What say I then? that the
idol ng, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is
any thing?  10:2y, that the things which the Gentiles
sacrifice, they sacrifice to devnot to God: and I would not
that ye should have fellowship with devilse cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of devils: ye
cannot brs of the Lord’s table, and of the table of devils.

10:22 Do we proord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?
10:23 All things are lawful  things are not expedient:
all things are lawful for me, but all thing.

10:24 Let no man seek his own, but every man another’s wealth.

1oever is sold in the shambles, that eat, asking no question
for consci 10:26 For the earth is the Lord’s, and the
fulness thereof.

10:27 them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be
disposed to go; wh set before you, eat, asking no question
for conscience sake.

10:28 Bman say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto
idols, eat not forthat shewed it, and for conscience sake:
for the earth is the Lord’sulness thereof: 10:29
Conscience, I say, not thine own, but of the othy is my
liberty judged of another man’s conscience?  10:30 For if I  partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give
thanks?  ther therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye
do, do all to the gl.

10:32 Give none offence, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, church of God: 10:33 Even as I please all men in all things,
not seeki profit, but the profit of many, that they may be
saved.

11:1 Be ye fof me, even as I also am of Christ.

11:2 Now I praise you, brethren, ember me in all things,
and keep the ordinances, as I delivered them t:3 But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ;
anof the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.

11:4 Every maor prophesying, having his head covered,
dishonoureth his head.

11:5 woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head
uncovered dishonourethfor that is even all one as if she
were shaven.

11:6 For if the womanered, let her also be shorn: but if it
be a shame for a woman to be shen, let her be covered.

11:7 For a man indeed ought not to cover his much as he is
the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory o
11:8 For the man is not of the woman: but the woman of the man.

11:9s the man created for the woman; but the woman for the
man.

11:10 For ought the woman to have power on her head because
of the angels.

11:eless neither is the man without the woman, neither the
woman without n the Lord.

11:12 For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man he
woman; but all things of God.

11:13 Judge in yourselves: is it compray unto God
uncovered?  11:14 Doth not even nature itself teach you,
man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?  11:15 But if a woman hav, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a
covering.

11:any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom,
neither the chGod.

11:17 Now in this that I declare unto you I praise you not, thatgether not for the better, but for the worse.

11:18 For first of all,me together in the church, I hear
that there be divisions among you; aalso heresies among you, that they which are
approved may be made maniu.

11:20 When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not supper.

11:21 For in eating every one taketh before other his own supne is hungry, and another is drunken.

11:22 What? have ye not houses to drink in? or despise ye
the church of God, and shame them that have shall I say to
you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.

11have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto
you, That tesus the same night in which he was betrayed took
bread: 11:24 And whegiven thanks, he brake it, and said,
Take, eat: this is my body, which for you: this do in
remembrance of me.

11:25 After the same manner aok the cup, when he had supped,
saying, This cup is the new testament od: this do ye, as oft
as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.

11:26 Fon as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do
shew the Lord’s de he come.

11:27 Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink tf
the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the
L8 But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread,
and that cup.

11:29 For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth ah
damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body.

11:30 For tmany are weak and sickly among you, and many
sleep.

11:31 For if we we ourselves, we should not be judged.

11:32 But when we are judged, w of the Lord, that we
should not be condemned with the world.

11:33 Wbrethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one
for another.

11:34  man hunger, let him eat at home; that ye come not
together unto conde the rest will I set in order when I
come.

12:1 Now concerning spirit, brethren, I would not have you
ignorant.

12:2 Ye know that ye were arried away unto these dumb
idols, even as ye were led.

12:3 Whereforou to understand, that no man speaking by the
Spirit of God calleth Jeed: and that no man can say that
Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Gh Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.

12:5 And thferences of administrations, but the same Lord.

12:6 And there are dirations, but it is the same God
which worketh all in all.

12:7 But thion of the Spirit is given to every man to
profit withal.

12:8 For toen by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another
the word of knowledge Spirit; 12:9 To another faith by the
same Spirit; to another the giftsby the same Spirit; 12:10
To another the working of miracles; to anoth to another
discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues;r
the interpretation of tongues: 12:11 But all these worketh that one
same Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will.

12:12 For as one, and hath many members, and all the
members of that one body, beie one body: so also is Christ.

12:13 For by one Spirit are we all bape body, whether we
be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; ann all
made to drink into one Spirit.

12:14 For the body is not one me many.

12:15 If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am nody; is it therefore not of the body?  12:16 And if the ear shall
say,am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore
not of the body? the whole body were an eye, where were the
hearing? If the whole wereere were the smelling?  12:18
But now hath God set the members every oin the body, as it
hath pleased him.

12:19 And if they were all one me were the body?  12:20 But
now are they many members, yet but one bodnd the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee:
nor againo the feet, I have no need of you.

12:22 Nay, much more those membersdy, which seem to be more
feeble, are necessary: 12:23 And those membeody, which we
think to be less honourable, upon these we bestow more anour; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.

12:24 Forparts have no need: but God hath tempered the
body together, having giundant honour to that part which
lacked.

12:25 That there should be n the body; but that the members
should have the same care one for anotnd whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it;
or one mnoured, all the members rejoice with it.

12:27 Now ye are the body of members in particular.

12:28 And God hath set some in the church, fis, secondarily
prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then glings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.

12:29 Are all aposll prophets? are all teachers? are all
workers of miracles?  12:30 Havifts of healing? do all
speak with tongues? do all interpret?  12:31 Brnestly the
best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.
h I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have
not charity,e as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.

13:2 And though I have theophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I th, so that I
could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothind though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I
give myburned, and have not charity, it profiteth me
nothing.

13:4 Charity sg, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity
vaunteth not itself, is np, 13:5 Doth not behave itself
unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not eked, thinketh no
evil; 13:6 Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth i13:7
Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endungs.

13:8 Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, the; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there
be knowled vanish away.

13:9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in part.

13:that which is perfect is come, then that which is in
part shall be donen I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child,
I thougild: but when I became a man, I put away childish
things.

13:12 For nhrough a glass, darkly; but then face to face:
now I know in part; butl I know even as also I am known.

13:13 And now abideth faith, hope, hese three; but the
greatest of these is charity.

14:1 Follow after cd desire spiritual gifts, but rather that
ye may prophesy.

14:2 For haketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men,
but unto God: for notandeth him; howbeit in the spirit he
speaketh mysteries.

14:3 But hehesieth speaketh unto men to edification, and
exhortation, and comfortthat speaketh in an unknown tongue edifieth himself; but he
that prophfieth the church.

14:5 I would that ye all spake with tongues but rat
prophesied: for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh
gues, except he interpret, that the church may receive
edifying.

14:6thren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what
shall I profit y I shall speak to you either by revelation,
or by knowledge, or by pror by doctrine?  14:7 And even
things without life giving sound, whetheharp, except they
give a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be kn piped
or harped?  14:8 For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, whepare himself to the battle?  14:9 So likewise ye, except ye utter
by  words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what
is spoken? fo speak into the air.

14:10 There are, it may be, so many kinds of voiworld, and
none of them is without signification.

14:11 Therefore if  the meaning of the voice, I shall be
unto him that speaketh a barbarithat speaketh shall be a
barbarian unto me.

14:12 Even so ye, forasmue zealous of spiritual gifts, seek
that ye may excel to the edifying och.

14:13 Wherefore let him that speaketh in an unknown tongue pray tinterpret.

14:14 For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayetnderstanding is unfruitful.

14:15 What is it then? I will pray with t and I will pray
with the understanding also: I will sing with the spiill
sing with the understanding also.

14:16 Else when thou shalt bles spirit, how shall he that
occupieth the room of the unlearned say Ameiving of thanks,
seeing he understandeth not what thou sayest?  14:17 rily
givest thanks well, but the other is not edified.

14:18 I thank peak with tongues more than ye all: 14:19 Yet
in the church I had rathfive words with my understanding,
that by my voice I might teach othern ten thousand words in
an unknown tongue.

14:20 Brethren, be not chiderstanding: howbeit in malice be
ye children, but in understanding be21 In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other
lips k unto this people; and yet for all that will they not
hear me, saith 14:22 Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but
t believe not: but prophesying serveth not for them that
believe not, m which believe.

14:23 If therefore the whole church be come togetherplace,
and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are
ununbelievers, will they not say that ye are mad?  14:24
But if all propthere come in one that believeth not, or one
unlearned, he is convincee is judged of all: 14:25 And thus
are the secrets of his heart made m so falling down on his
face he will worship God, and report that God of a truth.

14:26 How is it then, brethren? when ye come together, ev
you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation,
erpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying.

14:27 If any man s unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at
the most by three, and that bnd let one interpret.

14:28 But if there be no interpreter, let him ke in the
church; and let him speak to himself, and to God.

14:29 Let s speak two or three, and let the other judge.

14:30 If any thing be o another that sitteth by, let the
first hold his peace.

14:31 For yeophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all
may be comforted.

14:3spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.

14:33 For God ishor of confusion, but of peace, as in all
churches of the saints.

14:men keep silence in the churches: for it is not
permitted unto them tothey are commanded to be under
obedience as also saith the law.

14:35ey will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at
home: for it ior women to speak in the church.

14:36 What? came the word of God out or came it unto you
only?  14:37 If any man think himself to be a protual,
let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are thments of the Lord.

14:38 But if any man be ignorant, let him be ignor Wherefore, brethren, covet to prophesy, and forbid not to speak
with 14:40 Let all things be done decently and in order.

15:1 Moreover, brdeclare unto you the gospel which I
preached unto you, which also ye hed, and wherein ye stand;
15:2 By which also ye are saved, if ye keep hat I preached
unto you, unless ye have believed in vain.

15:3 For I nto you first of all that which I also received,
how that Christ died s according to the scriptures; 15:4
And that he was buried, and that hin the third day according
to the scriptures: 15:5 And that he was sees, then of the
twelve: 15:6 After that, he was seen of above five hunden at
once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but somn asleep.

15:7 After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apos8 And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due
tiFor I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called
an aause I persecuted the church of God.

15:10 But by the grace of God I m: and his grace which was
bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I lababundantly than
they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was wi:11 Therefore whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye
belie2 Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say
some ahat there is no resurrection of the dead?  15:13 But
if there be no re of the dead, then is Christ not risen:
15:14 And if Christ be not risis our preaching vain, and your
faith is also vain.

15:15 Yea, and we false witnesses of God; because we have
testified of God that he raist: whom he raised not up, if
so be that the dead rise not.

15:16 For d rise not, then is not Christ raised: 15:17 And
if Christ be not raisaith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.

15:18 Then they also which areleep in Christ are perished.

15:19 If in this life only we have hope we are of all men
most miserable.

15:20 But now is Christ risen from and become the
firstfruits of them that slept.

15:21 For since by manh, by man came also the resurrection
of the dead.

15:22 For as in Adaeven so in Christ shall all be made
alive.

15:23 But every man in his: Christ the firstfruits;
afterward they that are Christ’s at his co24 Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom
to the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all
authority an25 For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet.

15t enemy that shall be destroyed is death.

15:27 For he hath put all tr his feet. But when he saith all
things are put under him, it is manihe is excepted, which
did put all things under him.

15:28 And when alall be subdued unto him, then shall the
Son also himself be subject unt put all things under him,
that God may be all in all.

15:29 Else whhey do which are baptized for the dead, if the
dead rise not at all? wy then baptized for the dead?  15:30
And why stand we in jeopardy ever5:31 I protest by your
rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our LORDily.

15:32 If after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ept advantageth it me, if the dead rise not? let us eat and drink;
for t die.

15:33 Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good mannersAwake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the
knowledge oeak this to your shame.

15:35 But some man will say, How are the dead? and with what
body do they come?  15:36 Thou fool, that which thou st
quickened, except it die: 15:37 And that which thou sowest, thou
sowhat body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of
wheat, or of rain: 15:38 But God giveth it a body as it
hath pleased him, and to evis own body.

15:39 All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one en, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of
birds.
ere are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the
glory ostial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is
another.

15:41 Therlory of the sun, and another glory of the moon,
and another glory of tr one star differeth from another
star in glory.

15:42 So also is theon of the dead. It is sown in
corruption; it is raised in incorruption is sown in
dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; d
in power: 15:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual
 is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.

15:45 And so it isThe first man Adam was made a living soul;
the last Adam was made a quirit.

15:46 Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that wural; and afterward that which is spiritual.

15:47 The first man is oh, earthy; the second man is the
Lord from heaven.

15:48 As is the ea are they also that are earthy: and as is
the heavenly, such are they re heavenly.

15:49 And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we sbear
the image of the heavenly.

15:50 Now this I say, brethren, that ood cannot inherit
the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherition.

15:51 Behold, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but ll be changed, 15:52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye,
at the l for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be
raised incorruptib shall be changed.

15:53 For this corruptible must put on incorruptios mortal
must put on immortality.

15:54 So when this corruptible shal on incorruption, and
this mortal shall have put on immortality, then brought to
pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in v:55 O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?
15:56 of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law.

15:57 But thanks, which giveth us the victory through our
Lord Jesus Christ.

15:58 Thy beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmoveable,
always abounding in thhe Lord, forasmuch as ye know that
your labour is not in vain in the L Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given
order tches of Galatia, even so do ye.

16:2 Upon the first day of the week lne of you lay by him in
store, as God hath prospered him, that there brings when I
come.

16:3 And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve ers,
them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem.

16:4 A meet that I go also, they shall go with me.

16:5 Now I will come unten I shall pass through Macedonia:
for I do pass through Macedonia.

1 may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that
ye may bringjourney whithersoever I go.

16:7 For I will not see you now by the warust to tarry a
while with you, if the Lord permit.

16:8 But I will tesus until Pentecost.

16:9 For a great door and effectual is opened ud there are
many adversaries.

16:10 Now if Timotheus come, see that hith you without fear:
for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also dbut conduct him forth in
peace, that he may come unto me: for I look fren.

16:12 As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to he brethren: but his will was not at all to come at
this time; but he hen he shall have convenient time.

16:13 Watch ye, stand fast in the t you like men, be strong.

16:14 Let all your things be done with cha:15 I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that
it rstfruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted
themselves to the minthe saints,) 16:16 That ye submit
yourselves unto such, and to every oeth with us, and
laboureth.

16:17 I am glad of the coming of Stephanaunatus and
Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have

16:18 For they have refreshed my spirit and yours: therefore
acknowlem that are such.

16:19 The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Palute you
much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.

1he brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with
an holy kiss.

16:21 tion of me Paul with mine own hand.

16:22 If any man love not the Lorrist, let him be
Anathema Maranatha.

16:23 The grace of our Lord Jesu you.

16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.




The Se of Paul the Apostle to the Corinthians


1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesu the will of God, and Timothy
our brother, unto the church of God whicorinth, with all the
saints which are in all Achaia: 1:2 Grace be to yce from God
our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3 Blessed b the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the
Father of mercies, and the Gomfort; 1:4 Who comforteth us
in all our tribulation, that we may be afort them which are
in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselforted of
God.

1:5 For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so oation
also aboundeth by Christ.

1:6 And whether we be afflicted, it ilation and
salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same s
which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your
consd salvation.

1:7 And our hope of you is stedfast, knowing, that as yekers
of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.

1:8 F not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which
came to us in A we were pressed out of measure, above
strength, insomuch that we desp of life: 1:9 But we had the
sentence of death in ourselves, that we strust in ourselves,
but in God which raiseth the dead: 1:10 Who delivem so great
a death, and doth deliver: in whom we trust that he will yeus; 1:11 Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift
pon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by
many on our1:12 For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that
city and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the
grace ofave had our conversation in the world, and more
abundantly to you-wardr we write none other things unto you, than what ye read or
acknowledgrust ye shall acknowledge even to the end; 1:14 As
also ye have acknown part, that we are your rejoicing, even
as ye also are ours in the daord Jesus.

1:15 And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you at
ye might have a second benefit; 1:16 And to pass by you into
Macedoo come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you to
be brought on myd Judaea.

1:17 When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness?ings that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with
meuld be yea yea, and nay nay?  1:18 But as God is true, our
word towardot yea and nay.

1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preachyou by
us, even by me and Silvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay,m was yea.

1:20 For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in hito
the glory of God by us.

1:21 Now he which stablisheth us with you  and hath anointed
us, is God; 1:22 Who hath also sealed us, and givenst of the
Spirit in our hearts.

1:23 Moreover I call God for a recordsoul, that to spare you
I came not as yet unto Corinth.

1:24 Not for ve dominion over your faith, but are helpers of
your joy: for by faithnd.

2:1 But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again heaviness.

2:2 For if I make you sorry, who is he then that maketh 
the same which is made sorry by me?  2:3 And I wrote this same unto
yhen I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought
to rejoice;nfidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of
you all.

2:4 For out oliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you
with many tears; not tha be grieved, but that ye might know
the love which I have more abundanou.

2:5 But if any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in I may not overcharge you all.

2:6 Sufficient to such a man is this puwhich was inflicted
of many.

2:7 So that contrariwise ye ought rathere him, and comfort
him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed upuch
sorrow.

2:8 Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your lohim.

2:9 For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proohether ye be obedient in all things.

2:10 To whom ye forgive any thine also: for if I forgave
any thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakI it in the
person of Christ; 2:11 Lest Satan should get an advantage we are not ignorant of his devices.

2:12 Furthermore, when I came to reach Christ’s gospel, and
a door was opened unto me of the Lord, 2:my
spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave owent from thence into Macedonia.

2:14 Now thanks be unto God, which ath us to triumph in
Christ, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowus in every
place.

2:15 For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ,hat are
saved, and in them that perish: 2:16 To the one we are the savh unto death; and to the other the savour of life unto life. And
who int for these things?  2:17 For we are not as many,
which corrupt the wd: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in
the sight of God speak we in:1 Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or need we, as some
others,f commendation to you, or letters of commendation
from you?  3:2 Ye arle written in our hearts, known and
read of all men: 3:3 Forasmuch as ifestly declared to be the
epistle of Christ ministered by us, writtennk, but with the
Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but tables
of the heart.

3:4 And such trust have we through Christ to Go Not that we
are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ours
our sufficiency is of God; 3:6 Who also hath made us able ministers otestament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the
letter killet spirit giveth life.

3:7 But if the ministration of death, written anin stones,
was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not stedold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance; which glory
waone away: 3:8 How shall not the ministration of the spirit
be rather g:9 For if the ministration of condemnation be
glory, much more doth thtion of righteousness exceed in
glory.

3:10 For even that which was mus had no glory in this
respect, by reason of the glory that excellethr if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which
remainious.

3:12 Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness 3:13 And not as Moses, which put a vail over his face, that
the childel could not stedfastly look to the end of that
which is abolished: 3:ir minds were blinded: for until this
day remaineth the same vail unta the reading of the old
testament; which vail is done away in Christ.
ven unto this day, when Moses is read, the vail is upon
their heart.

heless when it shall turn to the Lord, the vail shall be
taken away.

he Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is,
there is 

3:18 But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory ofare changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as
by the Sp LORD.

4:1 Therefore seeing we have this ministry, as we have receivee faint not; 4:2 But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty,
n in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully;
but by manif the truth commending ourselves to every man’s
conscience in the sig
4:3 But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost: 4:4 Ingod of this world hath blinded the minds of them which
believe not, leht of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is
the image of God, should shem.

4:5 For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord; and
your servants for Jesus’ sake.

4:6 For God, who commanded the lightout of darkness, hath
shined in our hearts, to give the light of the kf the glory
of God in the face of Jesus Christ.

4:7 But we have this  earthen vessels, that the excellency
of the power may be of God, and 

4:8 We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are
perplet in despair; 4:9 Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast
down, but not des10 Always bearing about in the body the
dying of the Lord Jesus, that lso of Jesus might be made
manifest in our body.

4:11 For we which liy delivered unto death for Jesus’ sake,
that the life also of Jesus e manifest in our mortal
flesh.

4:12 So then death worketh in us, butyou.

4:13 We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is writieved, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore
speowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise
up us also by shall present us with you.

4:15 For all things are for your sakes, tundant grace might
through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glo16 For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish,
yed man is renewed day by day.

4:17 For our light affliction, which is moment, worketh for
us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glorile we
look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which en: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which
an are eternal.

5:1 For we know that if our earthly house of this tabee
dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands,
the heavens.

5:2 For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothh
our house which is from heaven: 5:3 If so be that being clothed we
s found naked.

5:4 For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being ot
for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality miwed up of life.

5:5 Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thinwho
also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit.

5:6 Therefore ways confident, knowing that, whilst we are at
home in the body, we arom the Lord: 5:7 (For we walk by
faith, not by sight:) 5:8 We are confay, and willing rather
to be absent from the body, and to be present wd.

5:9 Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may b of him.

5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Chriery one may receive the things done in his body, according to that
he whether it be good or bad.

5:11 Knowing therefore the terror of the Lsuade men; but we
are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are mad in your
consciences.

5:12 For we commend not ourselves again unto yo you
occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to ansich glory in appearance, and not in heart.

5:13 For whether we be besves, it is to God: or whether we
be sober, it is for your cause.

5:14ove of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge,
that if one died, then were all dead: 5:15 And that he died
for all, that they which l not henceforth live unto
themselves, but unto him which died for themagain.

5:16 Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh: yea, have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him
no 7 Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old
things  away; behold, all things are become new.

5:18 And all things are of th reconciled us to himself by
Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the  reconciliation;
5:19 To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the 
himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed
 word of reconciliation.

5:20 Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, God did beseech
you by us: we pray you in Christ’s stead, be ye recGod.

5:21 For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; tha be made the righteousness of God in him.

6:1 We then, as workers tog him, beseech you also that ye
receive not the grace of God in vain.

 saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the
day of salvatsuccoured thee: behold, now is the accepted
time; behold, now is the dation.)  6:3 Giving no offence in
any thing, that the ministry be not 4 But in all things
approving ourselves as the ministers of God, in mu, in
afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, 6:5 In stripes, in
im, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings; 6:6
By pureness, e, by longsuffering, by kindness, by the Holy
Ghost, by love unfeignedthe word of truth, by the power of
God, by the armour of righteousnessht hand and on the left,
6:8 By honour and dishonour, by evil report aport: as
deceivers, and yet true; 6:9 As unknown, and yet well known; nd, behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed; 6:10 As sorrowful,
ejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing,
and yet pol things.

6:11 O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heared.

6:12 Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your o

6:13 Now for a recompence in the same, (I speak as unto my children,so enlarged.

6:14 Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelieversfellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion with darkness?  6:15 And what concord hath Christ with
Belial? or whah he that believeth with an infidel?  6:16 And
what agreement hath the idols? for ye are the
temple of the living God; as God hath said, I wl in them, and
walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall b.

6:17 Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith nd touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.

6:18 And willher unto you, and ye shall be my sons and
daughters, saith the Lord Al7:1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse
ourom all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting
holiness in theod.

7:2 Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man,defrauded no man.

7:3 I speak not this to condemn you: for I have sai that ye
are in our hearts to die and live with you.

7:4 Great is my of speech toward you, great is my glorying of
you: I am filled with com exceeding joyful in all our
tribulation.

7:5 For, when we were comedonia, our flesh had no rest, but
we were troubled on every side; withfightings, within were
fears.

7:6 Nevertheless God, that comforteth t are cast down,
comforted us by the coming of Titus; 7:7 And not by hinly,
but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you, when heyour earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me; so
thiced the more.

7:8 For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do no, though
I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made  though it were but for a season.

7:9 Now I rejoice, not that ye were, but that ye sorrowed
to repentance: for ye were made sorry after a ger, that ye
might receive damage by us in nothing.

7:10 For godly sorh repentance to salvation not to be
repented of: but the sorrow of theeth death.

7:11 For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed aftesort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of
yourse what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement
desire, yea, whaa, what revenge! In all things ye have
approved yourselves to be cleartter.

7:12 Wherefore, though I wrote unto you, I did it not for his cad done the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered wrong, but
that ourou in the sight of God might appear unto you.

7:13 Therefore we were  in your comfort: yea, and exceedingly
the more joyed we for the joy ocause his spirit was
refreshed by you all.

7:14 For if I have boastedto him of you, I am not ashamed;
but as we spake all things to you in n so our boasting,
which I made before Titus, is found a truth.

7:15 ard affection is more abundant toward you, whilst he
remembereth the of you all, how with fear and trembling ye
received him.

7:16 I rejoic that I have confidence in you in all things.

8:1 Moreover, brethren,to wit of the grace of God bestowed
on the churches of Macedonia; 8:2  a great trial of
affliction the abundance of their joy and their deepbounded
unto the riches of their liberality.

8:3 For to their power, rd, yea, and beyond their power
they were willing of themselves; 8:4 P intreaty
that we would receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowsAnd this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own
selves to, and unto us by the will of God.

8:6 Insomuch that we desired Titus,, so he would
also finish in you the same grace also.

8:7 Therefore, d in every thing, in faith, and utterance,
and knowledge, and in all dand in your love to us, see that
ye abound in this grace also.

8:8 I by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of
others, and to pincerity of your love.

8:9 For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Ch though he
was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye througrty might be rich.

8:10 And herein I give my advice: for this is expe you, who
have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a 
8:11 Now therefore perform the doing of it; that as there was a
readil, so there may be a performance also out of that
which ye have.

8:12ere be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to
that a man ha according to that he hath not.

8:13 For I mean not that other men bed, and ye burdened: 8:14 But
by an equality, that now at this time youce may be a supply
for their want, that their abundance also may be a want: that there may be equality: 8:15 As it is written, He that had
gch had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had no
lack.

8:1ks be to God, which put the same earnest care into the
heart of Titus :17 For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more forward,
ofccord he went unto you.

8:18 And we have sent with him the brother, w is in the
gospel throughout all the churches; 8:19 And not that only,as also chosen of the churches to travel with us with this grace,
whictered by us to the glory of the same Lord, and
declaration of your rea8:20 Avoiding this, that no man should
blame us in this abundance whicistered by us: 8:21 Providing
for honest things, not only in the sight Lord, but also in the
sight of men.

8:22 And we have sent with them , whom we have oftentimes
proved diligent in many things, but now muchupon the
great confidence which I have in you.

8:23 Whether any do entus, he is my partner and
fellowhelper concerning you: or our brethrend of, they are
the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christerefore shew ye to them, and before the churches, the proof of
your lour boasting on your behalf.

9:1 For as touching the ministering to tht is superfluous
for me to write to you: 9:2 For I know the forwardnesmind,
for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was r ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many.

9:3 Yet have I sent the lest our boasting of you should be
in vain in this behalf; that, as I y be ready: 9:4 Lest
haply if they of Macedonia come with me, and findared, we
(that we say not, ye) should be ashamed in this same confiden.

9:5 Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, that t before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereof
ye had ne, that the same might be ready, as a matter of
bounty, and not as of s.

9:6 But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also
spar he which soweth bountifully shall reap also
bountifully.

9:7 Every mg as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give;
not grudgingly, or of for God loveth a cheerful giver.

9:8 And God is able to make all gratoward you; that ye,
always having all sufficiency in all things, may every good
work: 9:9 (As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad; he hn
to the poor: his righteousness remaineth for ever.

9:10 Now he thatth seed to the sower both minister bread for
your food, and multiply yown, and increase the fruits of
your righteousness;) 9:11 Being enrichy thing to all
bountifulness, which causeth through us thanksgiving to2 For the administration of this service not only supplieth the
want ots, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto
God; 9:13 Whiles biment of this ministration they glorify
God for your professed subjecthe gospel of Christ, and for
your liberal distribution unto them, and en; 9:14 And by
their prayer for you, which long after you for the excce of
God in you.

9:15 Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift.

 Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of
Christ, whoe am base among you, but being absent am bold
toward you: 10:2 But I b, that I may not be bold when I am
present with that confidence, wherenk to be bold against
some, which think of us as if we walked accordinflesh.

10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the  (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty
through Goulling down of strong holds;) 10:5 Casting down
imaginations, and ever that exalteth itself against the
knowledge of God, and bringing into very thought to the
obedience of Christ; 10:6 And having in a readinese all
disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.

10:7 Do ye lookafter the outward appearance? If any man
trust to himself that he is Clet him of himself think this
again, that, as he is Christ’s, even srist’s.

10:8 For though I should boast somewhat more of our authorihe Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction,
Iot be ashamed: 10:9 That I may not seem as if I would
terrify you by l0:10 For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful; but his
bodie is weak, and his speech contemptible.

10:11 Let such an one think te are in word by
letters when we are absent, such will we be also in den we are
present.

10:12 For we dare not make ourselves of the numberpare
ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring
t by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves,
are not wisBut we will not boast of things without our measure, but
according to re of the rule which God hath distributed to us,
a measure to reach evu.

10:14 For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though wt unto you: for we are come as far as to you also in
preaching the gosist: 10:15 Not boasting of things without
our measure, that is, of oth labours; but having hope, when
your faith is increased, that we shalled by you according to
our rule abundantly, 10:16 To preach the gospelions beyond
you, and not to boast in another man’s line of things ma
our hand.

10:17 But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.

10 he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the
Lord commendeth.ld to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly: and
indeed bear 11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I have
espousene husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin
to Christ.

11:3, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve
through his subtilty,nds should be corrupted from the
simplicity that is in Christ.

11:4 Fat cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not
preached, or if yeother spirit, which ye have not received,
or another gospel, which ye ccepted, ye might well bear with
him.

11:5 For I suppose I was not a d the very chiefest apostles.

11:6 But though I be rude in speech, yenowledge; but we have
been throughly made manifest among you in all thHave I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might be
exalted have preached to you the gospel of God freely?
11:8 I robbed other chking wages of them, to do you service.

11:9 And when I was present wid wanted, I was chargeable to
no man: for that which was lacking to meen which came from
Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept mbeing
burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself.

11:10 As the trist is in me, no man shall stop me of this
boasting in the regions of :11 Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.

11:12 But what I will do, that I may cut off occasion from
them which desire occasion; n they glory, they may be found
even as we.

11:13 For such are false eceitful workers, transforming
themselves into the apostles of Christ. no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of
light.

fore it is no great thing if his ministers also be
transformed as the f righteousness; whose end shall be
according to their works.

11:16 I Let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as a
fool receive me, tast myself a little.

11:17 That which I speak, I speak it not after tut as it
were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.

11:18 Seeingory after the flesh, I will glory also.

11:19 For ye suffer fools gla ye yourselves are wise.

11:20 For ye suffer, if a man bring you into a man devour
you, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a ou
on the face.

11:21 I speak as concerning reproach, as though we hak.
Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold
a Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are
they thebraham? so am I.

11:23 Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fore; in
labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons mor in deaths oft.

11:24 Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes
11:25 Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I
suffreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; 11:26
In journeyings perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in
perils by mine own countrymrils by the heathen, in perils in
the city, in perils in the wilderness in the sea, in perils
among false brethren; 11:27 In weariness and p in watchings
often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold ss.

11:28 Beside those things that are without, that which cometh upo, the care of all the churches.

11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak?, and I burn not?
11:30 If I must needs glory, I will glory of the thincern
mine infirmities.

11:31 The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Chch is blessed
for evermore, knoweth that I lie not.

11:32 In Damascusrnor under Aretas the king kept the city of
the Damascenes with a garrrous to apprehend me: 11:33 And
through a window in a basket was I letthe wall, and escaped
his hands.

12:1 It is not expedient for me doubto
visions and revelations of the Lord.

12:2 I knew a man in Christ aannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God
knoweth;) snd I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body,
I cannp into
paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful fan to utter.

12:5 Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will nies.

12:6 For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; any man should think of me
above that which he seeth me to be, or thated above measure through the abundance
of the revelations, there was gSatan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above
measure.

12:8 For  depart
from me.

12:9 And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient forgladly therefore will I
rather glory in my infirmities, that the powertake pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in
necessities, in persecn I am weak, then am I strong.

12:11 I am become a fool in glorying; mended of you: for in nothing am I behind the
very chiefest apostles, stle were wrought among you in all
patience, in signs, and wonders, anwere inferior to other churches,
except it be that I myself was not buhe third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not
be burdensome dren
ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the chilt for you; though the
more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.s, being crafty,
I caught you with guile.

12:17 Did I make a gain of ired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make a
gain of yosame steps?  12:19 Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you?
 dearly beloved,
for your edifying.

12:20 For I fear, lest, when I co shall be found unto you such as ye would not: lest
there be debates, wellings, tumults: 12:21 And lest, when I come again, my God will
humbhave sinned
already, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornted.

13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of blished.

13:2 I told you before, and foretell you, as if I were preseto them which heretofore
have sinned, and to all other, that, if I comeek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which to
you-ward is not weak, bghty in you.

13:4 For though he was crucified through weakness, yet hy
the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live wite power of God toward you.

13:5 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in  prove your own
selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Chyou,
except ye be reprobates?  13:6 But I trust that ye shall know thaot reprobates.

13:7 Now I pray to God that ye do no evil; not that weppear
approved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we obates.

13:8 For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truFor we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and this
also wen your perfection.

13:10 Therefore I write these things being absent,ng present
I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Loen me to edification, and not to destruction.

13:11 Finally, brethren. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be
of one mind, live in peace; and tlove and peace shall be
with you.

13:12 Greet one another with an hol3:13 All the saints salute you.

13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Chrhe love of God, and the
communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. he Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Galatians


1:1 Paul, an apostlemen, neither by man, but by Jesus
Christ, and God the Father, who raishe dead;) 1:2 And all
the brethren which are with me, unto the churche be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus
Chri gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us
from this presentd, according to the will of God and our
Father: 1:5 To whom be glory fd ever. Amen.

1:6 I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that grace of Christ unto another gospel: 1:7 Which is not another; but
the that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of
Christ.

1:8 But thr an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel
unto you than that whi preached unto you, let him be
accursed.

1:9 As we said before, so saain, if any man preach any other
gospel unto you than that ye have rechim be accursed.

1:10 For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek men?
for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ. I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached
of me is man.

1:12 For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, revelation of Jesus Christ.

1:13 For ye have heard of my conversationast in the Jews’
religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the od, and
wasted it: 1:14 And profited in the Jews’ religion above man in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the
traditions ers.

1:15 But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother’ called me by his grace, 1:16 To reveal his Son in me, that I might
prmong the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh
and blood: 1:r went I up to Jerusalem to them which were
apostles before me; but I rabia, and returned again unto
Damascus.

1:18 Then after three years to Jerusalem to see Peter, and
abode with him fifteen days.

1:19 But e apostles saw I none, save James the Lord’s
brother.

1:20 Now the ch I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie
not.

1:21 Afterwards I the regions of Syria and Cilicia; 1:22 And
was unknown by face unto t of Judaea which were in Christ:
1:23 But they had heard only, That he persecuted us in times
past now preacheth the faith which once he des

2:1 Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with
Barnalso.

2:2 And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them tha I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which
were of repu means I should run, or had run, in
vain.

2:3 But neither Titus, who e, being a Greek, was compelled
to be circumcised: 2:4 And that becaus brethren unawares
brought in, who came in privily to spy out our libewe have
in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage: 2:5 Tove place by subjection, no, not for an hour; that the truth of the
goscontinue with you.

2:6 But of these who seemed to be somewhat, (whatsy were, it
maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man’s person:) fo
seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me: 2:7 But
conwhen they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was
committed untoe gospel of the circumcision was unto Peter;
2:8 (For he that wrought y in Peter to the apostleship of
the circumcision, the same was mightyard the Gentiles:) 2:9
And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed tos, perceived
the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Baright hands of fellowship; that we should go unto the heathen, and
theycircumcision.

2:10 Only they would that we should remember the poor; which
I also was forward to do.

2:11 But when Peter was come to Antiotood him to the face,
because he was to be blamed.

2:12 For before th came from James, he did eat with the
Gentiles: but when they were comrew and separated himself,
fearing them which were of the circumcisiond the other Jews dissembled likewise with him; insomuch that
Barnabas arried away with their dissimulation.

2:14 But when I saw that they wuprightly according to the
truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter befol, If thou, being
a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not  Jews,
why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?  2:15  Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles, 2:16 Knowing that
a  justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of
Jesus Christ,  believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be
justified by the faith of  by the works of the law: for
by the works of the law shall no flesh bd.

2:17 But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselvesfound sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God
forbid.

2I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself
a transgresshrough the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto
God.

2:20 Id with Christ: neverthless I live; yet not I, but
Christ liveth in me:fe which I now live in the flesh I live
by the faith of the Son of Godd me, and gave himself for me.

2:21 I do not frustrate the grace of Grighteousness come by
the law, then Christ is dead in vain.

3:1 O fooians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not
obey the truth, befores Jesus Christ hath been evidently set
forth, crucified among you?  3only would I learn of you,
Received ye the Spirit by the works of the  the hearing of
faith?  3:3 Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spiye now
made perfect by the flesh?  3:4 Have ye suffered so many thingsif it be yet in vain.

3:5 He therefore that ministereth to you the Spworketh
miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or byng of faith?  3:6 Even as Abraham believed God, and it was
accounted trighteousness.

3:7 Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, th the
children of Abraham.

3:8 And the scripture, foreseeing that God ify the heathen
through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, In
thee shall all nations be blessed.

3:9 So then they which be of blessed with faithful Abraham.

3:10 For as many as are of the works oare under the curse:
for it is written, Cursed is every one that contin all
things which are written in the book of the law to do them.

3:1 no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it
is evident: fot shall live by faith.

3:12 And the law is not of faith: but, The manh them shall
live in them.

3:13 Christ hath redeemed us from the cursw, being made a
curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one th on a
tree: 3:14 That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Genti Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit
through3:15 Brethren, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a
manant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth
thereto.

o Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not,
And to semany; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is
Christ.

3:17 And this t the covenant, that was confirmed before of
God in Christ, the law, wour hundred and thirty years after,
cannot disannul, that it should mamise of none effect.

3:18 For if the inheritance be of the law, it isf promise:
but God gave it to Abraham by promise.

3:19 Wherefore thenthe law? It was added because of
transgressions, till the seed should om the promise was
made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of .

3:20 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one.

3:21w then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if
there had been ven which could have given life, verily
righteousness should have beenaw.

3:22 But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the proaith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.

3:23 But be came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto
the faith which shoulds be revealed.

3:24 Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring urist,
that we might be justified by faith.

3:25 But after that faith e are no longer under a
schoolmaster.

3:26 For ye are all the childrey faith in Christ Jesus.

3:27 For as many of you as have been baptizeist have put on
Christ.

3:28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there isond nor free,
there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in us.

3:29 And if ye be Christ’s, then are ye Abraham’s seed, and hing to the promise.

4:1 Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a fereth
nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all; 4:2 But is uns and governors until the time appointed of the father.

4:3 Even so w were children, were in bondage under the
elements of the world: 4:4 Be fulness of the time was come,
God sent forth his Son, made of a womaer the law, 4:5 To
redeem them that were under the law, that we might 
adoption of sons.

4:6 And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth tof his Son
into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.

4:7 Wherefore thoue a servant, but a son; and if a son,
then an heir of God through Chriwbeit then, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which
by na
4:9 But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of Godrn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye
desire agan bondage?  4:10 Ye observe days, and months, and
times, and years.

4fraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labour in vain.

4:12 Breteseech you, be as I am; for I am as ye are: ye have
not injured me at  Ye know how through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel
unto first.

4:14 And my temptation which was in my flesh ye despised not,ed; but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus.

4:15 When the blessedness ye spake of? for I bear you record,
that, if it hadsible, ye would have plucked out your own
eyes, and have given them to6 Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?
4:17usly affect you, but not well; yea, they would exclude
you, that ye mi them.

4:18 But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good ot only when I am present with you.

4:19 My little children, of whom in birth again until Christ
be formed in you, 4:20 I desire to be presou now, and to
change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.

4:21 Telhat desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the
law?  4:22 For it ithat Abraham had two sons, the one by a
bondmaid, the other by a freew23 But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he
ofman was by promise.

4:24 Which things are an allegory: for these are enants;
the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, whic

4:25 For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to
Jerusa now is, and is in bondage with her children.

4:26 But Jerusalem whic is free, which is the mother of us
all.

4:27 For it is written, Rejo barren that bearest not; break
forth and cry, thou that travailest no desolate hath many
more children than she which hath an husband.

4:2 brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise.

4:29 But as thewas born after the flesh persecuted him that
was born after the Spiritit is now.

4:30 Nevertheless what saith the scripture? Cast out the bnd
her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the soreewoman.

4:31 So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwomahe free.

5:1 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hatree, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.

5:2 Behold, unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ
shall profit you nothing. I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a
debtore whole law.

5:4 Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever ofustified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.

5:5 For we through thet for the hope of righteousness by
faith.

5:6 For in Jesus Christ neimcision availeth any thing, nor
uncircumcision; but faith which worket

5:7 Ye did run well; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the
8 This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you.

5:9 A little leeth the whole lump.

5:10 I have confidence in you through the Lord, tl be none
otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his jhosoever he be.

5:11 And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, wt
suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased.

5:12 I were even cut off which trouble you.

5:13 For, brethren, ye have beento liberty; only use not
liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by one another.

5:14 For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in halt love thy neighbour as thyself.

5:15 But if ye bite and devour on take heed that ye be not
consumed one of another.

5:16 This I say th the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the
lust of the flesh.

5:17 For  lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against
the flesh: and the one to the other: so that ye
cannot do the things that ye would.

5:1e be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.

5:19 Now the works sh are manifest, which are these;
Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, ess, 5:20 Idolatry,
witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, sitions,
heresies, 5:21 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time
past,h do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of
God.

5:22 But the fe Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering,
gentleness, goodness, faieekness, temperance: against such
there is no law.

5:24 And they thatt’s have crucified the flesh with the
affections and lusts.

5:25 Ifn the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.

5:26 Let us not be desiin glory, provoking one another,
envying one another.

6:1 Brethren, ie overtaken in a fault, ye which are
spiritual, restore such an one inof meekness; considering
thyself, lest thou also be tempted.

6:2 Bearother’s burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.

6:3 For if a man elf to be something, when he is nothing, he
deceiveth himself.

6:4 Bury man prove his own work, and then shall he have
rejoicing in himselfnd not in another.

6:5 For every man shall bear his own burden.

6:6 at is taught in the word communicate unto him that
teacheth in all goo
6:7 Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth,
 he also reap.

6:8 For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the fleshuption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap
lifeng.

6:9 And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we s if we faint not.

6:10 As we have therefore opportunity, let us do gol men,
especially unto them who are of the household of faith.

6:11 Y large a letter I have written unto you with mine own
hand.

6:12 As mire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they
constrain you to be circumc lest they should suffer
persecution for the cross of Christ.

6:13 Fo they themselves who are circumcised keep the law; but
desire to have cised, that they may glory in your flesh.

6:14 But God forbid that I y, save in the cross of our Lord
Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crto me, and I unto the
world.

6:15 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcleth any thing, nor
uncircumcision, but a new creature.

6:16 And as m according to this rule, peace be on them, and
mercy, and upon the Isrod.

6:17 From henceforth let no man trouble me: for I bear in my bodyof the Lord Jesus.

6:18 Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ ur spirit.

Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Ephesiansl, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the
saints which hesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus:
1:2 Grace be to you, and pGod our Father, and from the Lord
Jesus Christ.

1:3 Blessed be the Goer of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath
blessed us with all spiritual bln heavenly places in Christ:
1:4 According as he hath chosen us in hime foundation of the
world, that we should be holy and without blame ben love:
1:5 Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by J to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, 1:6 To
the pre glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted
in the beloved.hom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of
sins, acche riches of his grace; 1:8 Wherein he hath
abounded toward us in all  prudence; 1:9 Having made known
unto us the mystery of his will, accois good pleasure which
he hath purposed in himself: 1:10 That in the dn of the
fulness of times he might gather together in one all things iboth which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him: 1:11 Inwe have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated
according to the  him who worketh all things after the
counsel of his own will: 1:12 Thld be to the praise of his
glory, who first trusted in Christ.

1:13 I also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth,
the gospel of yon: in whom also after that ye believed, ye
were sealed with that holy promise, 1:14 Which is the
earnest of our inheritance until the redempthe purchased
possession, unto the praise of his glory.

1:15 Wherefor after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus,
and love unto all the 16 Cease not to give thanks for you,
making mention of you in my prayehat the God of our Lord
Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give une spirit of
wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him: 1:18 The eyunderstanding being enlightened; that ye may know what is the hope of
g, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in
the saints, e exceeding greatness of his power to
us-ward who believe, according trking of his mighty power,
1:20 Which he wrought in Christ, when he rarom the dead, and
set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places above
all principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and everyis named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to
come: 1th put all things under his feet, and gave him to be
the head over allthe church, 1:23 Which is his body, the
fulness of him that filleth al
2:1 And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins;
 in time past ye walked according to the course of this
world, accordirince of the power of the air, the spirit
that now worketh in the chilobedience: 2:3 Among whom also
we all had our conversation in times palusts of our flesh,
fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mine by
nature the children of wrath, even as others.

2:4 But God, who iercy, for his great love wherewith he
loved us, 2:5 Even when we were ns, hath quickened us
together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;) 2h raised us
up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places is: 2:7 That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches
of in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.

2:8 For by grace are hrough faith; and that not of
yourselves: it is the gift of God: 2:9 Ns, lest any man
should boast.

2:10 For we are his workmanship, createt Jesus unto good
works, which God hath before ordained that we shouldem.

2:11 Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles in tho are called Uncircumcision by that which is called the
Circumcision h made by hands; 2:12 That at that time ye
were without Christ, being m the commonwealth of Israel, and
strangers from the covenants of prom no hope, and without
God in the world: 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus yimes were
far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ.

2:14 For he i, who hath made both one, and hath broken down
the middle wall of partween us; 2:15 Having abolished in his
flesh the enmity, even the law onts contained in
ordinances; for to make in himself of twain one new mng
peace; 2:16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body bs, having slain the enmity thereby: 2:17 And came and preached
peace th were afar off, and to them that were nigh.

2:18 For through him we ccess by one Spirit unto the
Father.

2:19 Now therefore ye are no mor and foreigners, but
fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the househ; 2:20 And
are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets,rist himself being the chief corner stone; 2:21 In whom all the
buildiamed together groweth unto an holy temple in the
Lord: 2:22 In whom yebuilded together for an habitation of
God through the Spirit.

3:1 For I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you
Gentiles, 3:2 If ye havethe dispensation of the grace of God
which is given me to you-ward: 3:n unto me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few words, 3:4
Whereby, whand my knowledge in the mystery
of Christ) 3:5 Which in other ages waso the sons of
men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prhe
Spirit; 3:6 That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs, and of the samnd partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel: 3:7
Whereof I wasnister, according to the gift of the grace of
God given unto me by theworking of his power.

3:8 Unto me, who am less than the least of all s this grace
given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsears
of Christ; 3:9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of thehich from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God,
who created by Jesus Christ: 3:10 To the intent that now
unto the principalities  in heavenly places might be known
by the church the manifold wisdom o1 According to the
eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus o:12 In
whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith orefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you,
which isy.

3:14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jes3:15 Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named,
3:16 That you, according to the riches of his glory, to
be strengthened with migrit in the inner man; 3:17 That
Christ may dwell in your hearts by faie, being rooted and
grounded in love, 3:18 May be able to comprehend waints what
is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; 3:19 Andthe love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled
we fulness of God.

3:20 Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abunve all
that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in usto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages,
wornd. Amen.

4:1 I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you thatorthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, 4:2 With all lowliness
ss, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love; 4:3
Endeavourithe unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.

4:4 There is one body, irit, even as ye are called in one
hope of your calling; 4:5 One Lord,h, one baptism, 4:6 One
God and Father of all, who is above all, and t, and in you
all.

4:7 But unto every one of us is given grace accordimeasure
of the gift of Christ.

4:8 Wherefore he saith, When he ascendgh, he led captivity
captive, and gave gifts unto men.

4:9 (Now that , what is it but that he also descended first
into the lower parts of   4:10 He that descended is the same
also that ascended up far above a, that he might fill all
things.)  4:11 And he gave some, apostles; anophets; and
some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; 4:12 Foecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the
edifying o of Christ: 4:13 Till we all come in the unity of
the faith, and of the of the Son of God, unto a perfect man,
unto the measure of the statufulness of Christ: 4:14 That we
henceforth be no more children, tossed, and carried about
with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of mening
craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive; 4:15 But speaking in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head,
even 6 From whom the whole body fitly joined together and
compacted by thatry joint supplieth, according to the
effectual working in the measure part, maketh increase of the
body unto the edifying of itself in love. I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth
walk notentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind, 4:18
Having the understandid, being alienated from the life of
God through the ignorance that is ecause of the blindness of
their heart: 4:19 Who being past feeling hathemselves over
unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with gree4:20 But ye have not so learned Christ; 4:21 If so be that ye have
heand have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus: 4:22
That ye putrning the former conversation the old man, which
is corrupt according eitful lusts; 4:23 And be renewed in
the spirit of your mind; 4:24 Andut on the new man, which
after God is created in righteousness and tru.

4:25 Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his
nor we are members one of another.

4:26 Be ye angry, and sin not: let n go down upon your
wrath: 4:27 Neither give place to the devil.

4:28that stole steal no more: but rather let him labour,
working with his hing which is good, that he may have to
give to him that needeth.

4:2orrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that
which is good of edifying, that it may minister grace unto
the hearers.

4:30 And gthe holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto
the day of redemptiet all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil
speakinaway from you, with all malice: 4:32 And be ye kind
one to another, teed, forgiving one another, even as God for
Christ’s sake hath forgiv1 Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; 5:2 And walk
in hrist also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us
an offering anfice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.

5:3 But fornication, and all ess, or covetousness, let it not
be once named among you, as becometh  Neither filthiness,
nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not c but rather
giving of thanks.

5:5 For this ye know, that no whoremongclean person, nor
covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritanf Christ and of God.

5:6 Let no man deceive you with vain words: for of these
things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobediee not ye therefore partakers with them.

5:8 For ye were sometimes dar now are ye light in the Lord:
walk as children of light: 5:9 (For thethe Spirit is in all
goodness and righteousness and truth;) 5:10 Proviacceptable
unto the Lord.

5:11 And have no fellowship with the unfrui of darkness, but
rather reprove them.

5:12 For it is a shame even tothose things which are done of
them in secret.

5:13 But all things thproved are made manifest by the light:
for whatsoever doth make manifet.

5:14 Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from and Christ shall give thee light.

5:15 See then that ye walk circumsp as fools, but as wise,
5:16 Redeeming the time, because the days are 7 Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of
the L:18 And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with
t; 5:19 Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and
spiritual songsnd making melody in your heart to the Lord;
5:20 Giving thanks always ings unto God and the Father in
the name of our Lord Jesus Christ; 5:2g yourselves one to
another in the fear of God.

5:22 Wives, submit yoo your own husbands, as unto the
Lord.

5:23 For the husband is the heife, even as Christ is the
head of the church: and he is the saviour o.

5:24 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wivheir own husbands in every thing.

5:25 Husbands, love your wives, eve also loved the church,
and gave himself for it; 5:26 That he might sacleanse it
with the washing of water by the word, 5:27 That he might po himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such
that it should be holy and without blemish.

5:28 So ought men to loveves as their own bodies. He that
loveth his wife loveth himself.

5:29 ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and
cherisheth it, even rd the church: 5:30 For we are members of
his body, of his flesh, and s.

5:31 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and sined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.

5:32 This is a gy: but I speak concerning Christ and the
church.

5:33 Nevertheless leof you in particular so love his wife
even as himself; and the wife sereverence her husband.

6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord: f right.

6:2 Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandmomise; 6:3 That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long
on
6:4 And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring
ththe nurture and admonition of the Lord.

6:5 Servants, be obedient to  are your masters according to
the flesh, with fear and trembling, in of your heart, as
unto Christ; 6:6 Not with eyeservice, as menpleasershe
servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart; 6:7 With
doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men: 6:8 Knowing
that whatsohing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of
the Lord, whether he  free.

6:9 And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing
: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is
there respect with him.

6:10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in tf
his might.

6:11 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be ableagainst the wiles of the devil.

6:12 For we wrestle not against flesh, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of th of
this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.

6:13 Wheke unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be
able to withstand l day, and having done all, to stand.

6:14 Stand therefore, having yort about with truth, and
having on the breastplate of righteousness; 6feet shod
with the preparation of the gospel of peace; 6:16 Above all,e shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the
fiery he wicked.

6:17 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of thhich is the word of God: 6:18 Praying always with all prayer and
supplthe Spirit, and watching thereunto with all
perseverance and supplicat saints; 6:19 And for me, that
utterance may be given unto me, that I h boldly, to
make known the mystery of the gospel, 6:20 For which I amdor in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to
speak.

6at ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, a
beloved brotithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to
you all things: 6:22 e sent unto you for the same purpose,
that ye might know our affairs, e might comfort your hearts.

6:23 Peace be to the brethren, and love  from God the
Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

6:24 Grace be with alt love our Lord Jesus Christ in
sincerity.

Amen.




The Epistle of Postle to the Philippians


1:1 Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jes to all the
saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bisacons: 1:2 Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and
fromesus Christ.

1:3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, 1:4 Aly
prayer of mine for you all making request with joy, 1:5 For your
feln the gospel from the first day until now; 1:6 Being
confident of thisg, that he which hath begun a good work in
you will perform it until tsus Christ: 1:7 Even as it is
meet for me to think this of you all, beve you in my heart;
inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence ation of
the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.

1:8 For God is how greatly I long after you all in the
bowels of Jesus Christ.

1:9 Aray, that your love may abound yet more and more in
knowledge and in ant; 1:10 That ye may approve things that
are excellent; that ye may beand without offence till the day
of Christ.

1:11 Being filled with thf righteousness, which are by Jesus
Christ, unto the glory and praise :12 But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which
to me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the
gospel; 1:13 bonds in Christ are manifest in all the
palace, and in all other placend many of the brethren in the
Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, areold to speak the
word without fear.

1:15 Some indeed preach Christ ev and strife; and some also
of good will: 1:16 The one preach Christ ofnot sincerely,
supposing to add affliction to my bonds: 1:17 But the ove,
knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.

1:18 What thhstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in
truth, Christ is prea therein do rejoice, yea, and will
rejoice.

1:19 For I know that thisn to my salvation through your
prayer, and the supply of the Spirit ofst, 1:20 According
to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothl be
ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Chrismagnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.

1:21 For toe is Christ, and to die is gain.

1:22 But if I live in the flesh, thifruit of my labour: yet
what I shall choose I wot not.

1:23 For I am t betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and
to be with Christ; whichtter: 1:24 Nevertheless to abide in
the flesh is more needful for you. having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and
continue with y your furtherance and joy of faith; 1:26 That
your rejoicing may be mot in Jesus Christ for me by my
coming to you again.

1:27 Only let yoution be as it becometh the gospel of
Christ: that whether I come and s else be absent, I may hear
of your affairs, that ye stand fast in oneth one mind
striving together for the faith of the gospel; 1:28 And inerrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of
per to you of salvation, and that of God.

1:29 For unto you it is given lf of Christ, not only to
believe on him, but also to suffer for his sHaving the same
conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of
love, lowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, 2:2
Fulfil ye my joye likeminded, having the same love, being
of one accord, of one mind.
thing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness
of mind leem other better than themselves.

2:4 Look not every man on his own thevery man also on the
things of others.

2:5 Let this mind be in you, also in Christ Jesus: 2:6 Who,
being in the form of God, thought it noual with God:
2:7 But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him of a
servant, and was made in the likeness of men: 2:8 And being founn as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death,
even tf the cross.

2:9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and giveame
which is above every name: 2:10 That at the name of Jesus every knbow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under
the ea And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ
is Lord, to th God the Father.

2:12 Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyedn my
presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your ownn with fear and trembling.

2:13 For it is God which worketh in you bol and to do of his
good pleasure.

2:14 Do all things without murmurinputings: 2:15 That ye may
be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, ebuke, in the
midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shghts
in the world; 2:16 Holding forth the word of life; that I may rejhe day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured in
vaiea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your
faith,  rejoice with you all.

2:18 For the same cause also do ye joy, and re me.

2:19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly untt I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.

2:20 For I h likeminded, who will naturally care for your
state.

2:21 For all seewn, not the things which are Jesus Christ’s.

2:22 But ye know the p, that, as a son with the father, he
hath served with me in the gospelm therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see
how it wime.

2:24 But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortl I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my
brother, and n labour, and fellowsoldier, but your
messenger, and he that ministerents.

2:26 For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, bece had heard that he had been sick.

2:27 For indeed he was sick nigh u but God had mercy on him;
and not on him only, but on me also, lest Ie sorrow upon
sorrow.

2:28 I sent him therefore the more carefully, tye see him
again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowfuleceive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and hold
such in r 2:30 Because for the work of Christ he was nigh
unto death, not regarife, to supply your lack of service
toward me.

3:1 Finally, my brethr in the Lord. To write the same
things to you, to me indeed is not grifor you it is safe.

3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, bewaroncision.

3:3 For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the srejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.

3:4 Tho also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man
thinketh that he of he might trust in the flesh, I more: 3:5
Circumcised the eighth daystock of Israel, of the tribe of
Benjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews; a6 Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; touching the
righteousness ss.

3:7 But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Chrless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency
of the knowlerist Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the
loss of all things, a them but dung, that I may win Christ,
3:9 And be found in him, not hawn righteousness, which is
of the law, but that which is through the fst, the
righteousness which is of God by faith: 3:10 That I may know he power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings,
beiformable unto his death; 3:11 If by any means I might
attain unto the n of the dead.

3:12 Not as though I had already attained, either wererfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which
alsohended of Christ Jesus.

3:13 Brethren, I count not myself to have apput this one
thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and th unto those things which are before, 3:14 I press toward the mark
fo of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

3:15 Let us therefore, ae perfect, be thus minded: and if
in any thing ye be otherwise minded,reveal even this unto
you.

3:16 Nevertheless, whereto we have alreadys walk by
the same rule, let us mind the same thing.

3:17 Brethren, br of me, and mark them which walk
so as ye have us for an ensample.

3any walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you
even weepingey are the enemies of the cross of Christ: 3:19
Whose end is destructiGod is their belly, and whose glory is
in their shame, who mind earthl)  3:20 For our conversation
is in heaven; from whence also we look foiour, the Lord Jesus
Christ: 3:21 Who shall change our vile body, that fashioned
like unto his glorious body, according to the working wherele even to subdue all things unto himself.

4:1 Therefore, my brethrenoved and longed for, my joy and
crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dved.

4:2 I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of thein the Lord.

4:3 And I intreat thee also, true yokefellow, help thosech
laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other mourers, whose names are in the book of life.

4:4 Rejoice in the Lord again I say, Rejoice.

4:5 Let your moderation be known unto all men.  at hand.

4:6 Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer antion with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto
God.

4:7 ace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep
your hearts anough Christ Jesus.

4:8 Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true,r things
are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things aretsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if
thvirtue, and if there be any praise, think on these
things.

4:9 Those ich ye have both learned, and received, and heard,
and seen in me, do:od of peace shall be with you.

4:10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatlw at the last your
care of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were a, but ye
lacked opportunity.

4:11 Not that I speak in respect of wantve learned, in
whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content.

4:12 Ihow to be abased, and I know how to abound: every
where and in all thinstructed both to be full and to be
hungry, both to abound and to suff4:13 I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

4:14 ding ye have well done, that ye did communicate with
my affliction.

4e Philippians know also, that in the beginning of the
gospel, when I dMacedonia, no church communicated with me
as concerning giving and rec only.

4:16 For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my
n

4:17 Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may aboundabound: I am full, having received of
Epaphroditus the things which wea sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God.

4:19 But my God shall suall your need according to his riches in
glory by Christ Jesus.

4:20 od and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

4:21 Salute every Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with
me greet you.

4:22 All theute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar’s
household.

4:23 The grac Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the  the Colossians


1:1  Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will ofTimotheus our brother, 1:2  To the saints and faithful brethren
in Chrare at Colosse: Grace be unto you, and peace,
from God our Father and esus Christ.

1:3  We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Je, praying
always for you,
1:4  Since we heard of your faith in Christ  of the love which ye
have to all the saints,
1:5  For the hope which  for you in heaven, whereof ye heard
before in the word of the truth opel;
1:6  Which is come unto you, as it is in all the world; and bringfruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew  of God in truth:
1:7  As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellows is for you
a faithful minister of Christ;
1:8  Who also declared untolove in the Spirit.

1:9  For this cause we also, since the day we hea not cease to
pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled withwledge of his
will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;
1:10  Th walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being
fruitful in every goand increasing in the knowledge of God;
1:11  Strengthened with all mirding to his glorious power, unto
all patience and longsuffering with   Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be
partakeritance of the saints in light:
1:13  Who hath delivered us from the parkness, and hath translated
us into the kingdom of his dear Son:
1:14we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of
sins:
1: the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every
creature:
1:16im were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are
in earth,d invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or
principalities,s: all things were created by him, and for him:
1:17  And he is beforegs, and by him all things consist.

1:18  And he is the head of the borch: who is the beginning, the
firstborn from the dead; that in all thght have the preeminence.

1:19  For it pleased the Father that in himl fulness dwell;
1:20  And, having made peace through the blood of his him to
reconcile all things unto himself; by him, I say, whether theyin
earth, or things in heaven.

1:21  And you, that were sometime alie enemies in your mind by
wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled
1:22ody of his flesh through death, to present you holy and
unblameable anveable in his sight:
1:23  If ye continue in the faith grounded and se be not moved
away from the hope of the gospel, which ye have heard, aas preached
to every creature which is under heaven; whereof I Paul amnister;
1:24  Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up ths
behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body’s sak
the church:
1:25  Whereof I am made a minister, according to the dispf God
which is given to me for you, to fulfil the word of God;
1:26  Etery which hath been hid from ages and from generations,
but now is manifest to his saints:
1:27  To whom God would make known what is the rhe glory of this
mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, tf glory:
1:28  Whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every misdom; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus:
1:29  Whalso labour, striving according to his working, which
worketh in me mi:1  For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you, and f Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh;
2:2 r hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, and
unto all the full assurance of understanding, to the
acknowledgement of the myod, and of the Father, and of Christ;
2:3  In whom are hid all the trewisdom and knowledge.

2:4  And this I say, lest any man should beguilenticing words.

2:5  For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I withe spirit,
joying and beholding your order, and the stedfastness of yin
Christ.

2:6  As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord,  in
him:
2:7  Rooted and built up in him, and stablished in the faith,e
been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.

2:8  Beware lest il you through philosophy and vain deceit,
after the tradition of men,e rudiments of the world, and not after
Christ.

2:9  For in him dwelle fulness of the Godhead bodily.

2:10  And ye are complete in him, wh head of all principality and
power:
2:11  In whom also ye are circumcthe circumcision made without
hands, in putting off the body of the si flesh by the circumcision
of Christ:
2:12  Buried with him in baptismn also ye are risen with him
through the faith of the operation of God raised him from the dead.

2:13  And you, being dead in your sins andircumcision of your
flesh, hath he quickened together with him, havingyou all
trespasses;
2:14  Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances tagainst us, which
was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailhis cross;
2:15  And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made them
openly, triumphing over them in it.

2:16  Let no man therefore  in meat, or in drink, or in respect of
an holyday, or of the new moone sabbath days:
2:17  Which are a shadow of things to come; but the bohrist.

2:18  Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary hum
worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which he hath not ly puffed up by his fleshly mind,
2:19  And not holding the Head, froml the body by joints and bands
having nourishment ministered, and knitaseth with the
increase of God.

2:20  Wherefore if ye be dead with Chthe rudiments of the world,
why, as though living in the world, are yeo ordinances,
2:21  (Touch not; taste not; handle not;
2:22  Which allrish with the using;) after the commandments and
doctrines of men?
2:2hings have indeed a shew of wisdom in will worship, and
humility, and g of the body: not in any honour to the satisfying
of the flesh.

3:1 n be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above,
where Chrison the right hand of God.

3:2  Set your affection on things above, nos on the earth.

3:3  For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Chris
3:4  When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also a him in glory.

3:5  Mortify therefore your members which are upon theornication,
uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, andness,
which is idolatry:
3:6  For which things’ sake the wrath of Gon the children of
disobedience:
3:7  In the which ye also walked some  ye lived in them.

3:8  But now ye also put off all these; anger, wra, blasphemy,
filthy communication out of your mouth.

3:9  Lie not one, seeing that ye have put off the old man with
his deeds;
3:10  And hathe new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the
image of him thatim:
3:11  Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor
uncirBarbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in
all.

3: therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of
mercies, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;
3:13  Forbearing one anotorgiving one another, if any man have a
quarrel against any: even as Cave you, so also do ye.

3:14  And above all these things put on chari is the bond of
perfectness.

3:15  And let the peace of God rule in y, to the which also ye
are called in one body; and be ye thankful.

3:e word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching
and admonanother in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing
with grace ints to the Lord.

3:17  And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all inof the Lord
Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

3:18  mit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the
Lord.

3:19love your wives, and be not bitter against them.

3:20  Children, obeynts in all things: for this is well pleasing
unto the Lord.

3:21  Fate not your children to anger, lest they be
discouraged.

3:22  Servant all things your masters according to the flesh; not
with eyeservice, ers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God;
3:23  And whatsoever ye do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto
men;
3:24  Knowing that o ye shall receive the reward of the
inheritance: for ye serve the Lord3:25  But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hat there is no respect of persons.

4:1  Masters, give unto your servantich is just and equal; knowing
that ye also have a Master in heaven.

nue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;
4:3  Withal pr for us, that God would open unto us a door of
utterance, to speak the Christ, for which I am also in bonds:
4:4  That I may make it manifesght to speak.

4:5  Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeme.

4:6  Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, thaknow how ye ought to answer every man.

4:7  All my state shall Tychicunto you, who is a beloved
brother, and a faithful minister and fellow the Lord:
4:8  Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that hnow
your estate, and comfort your hearts;
4:9  With Onesimus, a faithfved brother, who is one of you. They
shall make known unto you all thiare done here.

4:10  Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and ster’s son
to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if to you,
receive him;)
4:11  And Jesus, which is called Justus, who arercumcision. These
only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God, ween a comfort
unto me.

4:12  Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant osaluteth you,
always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye mrfect and
complete in all the will of God.

4:13  For I bear him recorth a great zeal for you, and them
that are in Laodicea, and them in Hi:14  Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.

4:15  Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the
church which  in his house.

4:16  And when this epistle is read among you, cause te read also
in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise readtle from
Laodicea.

4:17  And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministhou hast
received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.

4:18  The salutae hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be
with you. Amen.




Thestle of Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians


1:1 Paul, and Silvanusotheus, unto the church of the
Thessalonians which is in God the Fathee Lord Jesus Christ:
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Fatherord Jesus
Christ.

1:2 We give thanks to God always for you all, makin of you in
our prayers; 1:3 Remembering without ceasing your work of flabour of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the
d and our Father; 1:4 Knowing, brethren beloved, your
election of God.our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power,
and in tost, and in much assurance; as ye know what manner
of men we were amon your sake.

1:6 And ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, havind
the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost.

1:7 So thansamples to all that believe in Macedonia and
Achaia.

1:8 For from yo out the word of the Lord not only in
Macedonia and Achaia, but also iace your faith to God-ward
is spread abroad; so that we need not to spthing.

1:9 For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in o you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and
tru10 And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised
from the dead, , which delivered us from the wrath to come.

2:1 For yourselves, bretw our entrance in unto you, that it
was not in vain: 2:2 But even afted suffered before, and
were shamefully entreated, as ye know, at Philire bold in
our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much conte3 For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in
guut as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the
gospel, even ak; not as pleasing men, but God, which trieth
our hearts.

2:5 For neany time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor
a cloke of covetousd is witness: 2:6 Nor of men sought we
glory, neither of you, nor yet , when we might have been
burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.

2:7 e gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her
children: 2:8 So beionately desirous of you, we were willing
to have imparted unto you, npel of God only, but also our
own souls, because ye were dear unto us.rethren, our labour and travail: for labouring
night and day, because we
preached unto you the gospel of God.

2:10 Ye are witnesses, and Gow holily and justly and
unblameably we behaved ourselves among you thanow how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a
f his children, 2:12 That ye would walk worthy of God, who
hath called is kingdom and glory.

2:13 For this cause also thank we God without cuse, when
ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye receivethe word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which
effectuth also in you that believe.

2:14 For ye, brethren, became followers ches of God which
in Judaea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffthings
of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews: 2:15 Who the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us;
and tnot God, and are contrary to all men: 2:16 Forbidding
us to speak to ts that they might be saved, to fill up their
sins alway: for the wrathpon them to the uttermost.

2:17 But we, brethren, being taken from yort time in
presence, not in heart, endeavoured the more abundantly to ace with great desire.

2:18 Wherefore we would have come unto you, ev once and
again; but Satan hindered us.

2:19 For what is our hope, orown of rejoicing? Are not even
ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Chng?  2:20 For
ye are our glory and joy.

3:1 Wherefore when we could norbear, we thought it good to
be left at Athens alone; 3:2 And sent Tier, and
minister of God, and our fellowlabourer in the gospel of Chrisablish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith: 3:3 That no
man ved by these afflictions: for yourselves know that we
are appointed th:4 For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we
shoulribulation; even as it came to pass, and ye know.

3:5 For this cause,uld no longer forbear, I sent to know
your faith, lest by some means thave tempted you, and our
labour be in vain.

3:6 But now when Timothem you unto us, and brought us good
tidings of your faith and charity, ye have good remembrance
of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as o see you: 3:7
Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all tion
and distress by your faith: 3:8 For now we live, if ye stand fastrd.

3:9 For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all trewith we joy for your sakes before our God; 3:10 Night and day
prayingly that we might see your face, and might perfect
that which is lackir faith?  3:11 Now God himself and our
Father, and our Lord Jesus Chri our way unto you.

3:12 And the Lord make you to increase and abound ne toward
another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you: 3:13 he may stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even
o, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his
saints.

4:1 Furn we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the
Lord Jesus, that as eived of us how ye ought to walk and to
please God, so ye would aboundore.

4:2 For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus. this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye
should absfornication: 4:4 That every one of you should know
how to possess his  sanctification and honour; 4:5 Not in the
lust of concupiscence, evenntiles which know not God: 4:6
That no man go beyond and defraud his bany matter: because
that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we alewarned
you and testified.

4:7 For God hath not called us unto unclea unto holiness.

4:8 He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, bo hath
also given unto us his holy Spirit.

4:9 But as touching brothe need not that I write unto you:
for ye yourselves are taught of God t another.

4:10 And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are donia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and
more; 4 ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business,
and to work with ynds, as we commanded you; 4:12 That ye may
walk honestly toward them thout, and that ye may have lack
of nothing.

4:13 But I would not havegnorant, brethren, concerning
them which are asleep, that ye sorrow noothers which have
no hope.

4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and, even so them
also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.

4:1we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which
are alive and rthe coming of the Lord shall not prevent
them which are asleep.

4:16 rd himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with
the voice of tel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in
Christ shall rise firsten we which are alive and remain shall
be caught up together with themouds, to meet the Lord in the
air: and so shall we ever be with the LoWherefore comfort one another with these words.

5:1 But of the times easons, brethren, ye have no need that I
write unto you.

5:2 For yourw perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh
as a thief in the nightr when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction
comet, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall
not escape.

5:4 ethren, are not in darkness, that that day should
overtake you as a thYe are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we
are  night, nor of darkness.

5:6 Therefore let us not sleep, as do others watch and be
sober.

5:7 For they that sleep sleep in the night; and be drunken
are drunken in the night.

5:8 But let us, who are of the der, putting on the
breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, t
salvation.

5:9 For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain by
our Lord Jesus Christ, 5:10 Who died for us, that, whether we wakeould live together with him.

5:11 Wherefore comfort yourselves togeth one another,
even as also ye do.

5:12 And we beseech you, brethren, em which labour among
you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish And to
esteem them very highly in love for their work’s sake. And bemong yourselves.

5:14 Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that areomfort
the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men.
that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever follow
that whic both among yourselves, and to all men.

5:16 Rejoice evermore.

5:17 ut ceasing.

5:18 In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of ist
Jesus concerning you.

5:19 Quench not the Spirit.

5:20 Despise nyings.

5:21 Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.

5:22 Absll appearance of evil.

5:23 And the very God of peace sanctify you whpray God
your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless uning of our Lord Jesus Christ.

5:24 Faithful is he that calleth you, wll do it.

5:25 Brethren, pray for us.

5:26 Greet all the brethren wi kiss.

5:27 I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto a brethren.

5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Thessalonians


1:1 Paul, an and Timotheus, unto the church of the
Thessalonians in God our FatherLord Jesus Christ: 1:2 Grace
unto you, and peace, from God our Father rd Jesus Christ.

1:3 We are bound to thank God always for you, brethris meet,
because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity ne of you all toward each other aboundeth; 1:4 So that we ourselves
gl in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all
your persectribulations that ye endure: 1:5 Which is a
manifest token of the righent of God, that ye may be
counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for wo suffer: 1:6
Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense trto
them that trouble you; 1:7 And to you who are troubled rest with us Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty
angels, 1:8 re taking vengeance on them that know not
God, and that obey not the gord Jesus Christ: 1:9 Who
shall be punished with everlasting destructisence of
the Lord, and from the glory of his power; 1:10 When he shalle glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe
r testimony among you was believed) in that day.

1:11 Wherefore also ays for you, that our God would count
you worthy of this calling, and the good pleasure of his
goodness, and the work of faith with power: 1he name of our
Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in hig to
the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.

2:1 Now we beseeethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ, and by our gathering tnto him, 2:2 That ye be not
soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neithit, nor by word,
nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ i

2:3 Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not comehere come a falling away first, and that man of sin be
revealed, the sition; 2:4 Who opposeth and exalteth himself
above all that is called that is worshipped; so that he as God
sitteth in the temple of God, shelf that he is God.

2:5 Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with yoou these
things?  2:6 And now ye know what withholdeth that he might b in his time.

2:7 For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: onlyw
letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.

2:8 And then shWicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall
consume with the spirit of hisnd shall destroy with the
brightness of his coming: 2:9 Even him, whoss after the
working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wondernd
with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish;
bececeived not the love of the truth, that they might be
saved.

2:11 Andcause God shall send them strong delusion, that they
should believe a hat they all might be damned who believed
not the truth, but had pleasighteousness.

2:13 But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for yn
beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you n through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the
truth: 2:14 W you by our gospel, to the obtaining of
the glory of our Lord Jesus Ch5 Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye
haght, whether by word, or our epistle.

2:16 Now our Lord Jesus Christ nd God, even our Father,
which hath loved us, and hath given us everlation and
good hope through grace, 2:17 Comfort your hearts, and stablievery good word and work.

3:1 Finally, brethren, pray for us, that thhe Lord may have
free course, and be glorified, even as it is with youthat we
may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men: for all menfaith.

3:3 But the Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keepevil.

3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye bowill do the things which we command you.

3:5 And the Lord direct yourto the love of God, and into the
patient waiting for Christ.

3:6 Now  you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus
Christ, that ye withdraws from every brother that walketh
disorderly, and not after the tradite received of us.

3:7 For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us: haved not
ourselves disorderly among you; 3:8 Neither did we eat any md
for nought; but wrought with labour and travail night and day, that ot be chargeable to any of you: 3:9 Not because we have not
power, buturselves an ensample unto you to follow us.

3:10 For even when we wer, this we commanded you, that if
any would not work, neither should he1 For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly,
worall, but are busybodies.

3:12 Now them that are such we command and er Lord Jesus
Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own 13 But ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing.

3:14 And if any man ur word by this epistle, note that man,
and have no company with him, y be ashamed.

3:15 Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as

3:16 Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all mean be with you all.

3:17 The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, whitoken in
every epistle: so I write.

3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus ith you all. Amen.




The First Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our
Saviour, esus Christ, which is our hope; 1:2 Unto Timothy,
my own son in the fa, mercy, and peace, from God our Father
and Jesus Christ our Lord.

1:ought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into
Macedonia, thattest charge some that they teach no other
doctrine, 1:4 Neither give hes and endless genealogies,
which minister questions, rather than godl which is in
faith: so do.

1:5 Now the end of the commandment is chara pure heart, and
of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned: 1:6 Frome
having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling; 1:7 Desiring ers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor
whereof they :8 But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully; 1:9
Kno, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for
the lawless annt, for the ungodly and for sinners, for
unholy and profane, for murdehers and murderers of mothers,
for manslayers, 1:10 For whoremongers, hat defile themselves
with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for pesons, and if
there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctriccording to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was
committeust.

1:12 And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, forounted me faithful, putting me into the ministry; 1:13 Who was
before er, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained
mercy, because I dantly in unbelief.

1:14 And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundith and
love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:15 This is a faithful sayingy of all acceptation, that
Christ Jesus came into the world to save si whom I am chief.

1:16 Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that  Jesus
Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to theould hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.

1:17 Now unto the , immortal, invisible, the only wise
God, be honour and glory for ever Amen.

1:18 This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a
good warfding faith, and a good conscience; which some
having put away concernihave made shipwreck: 1:20 Of whom is
Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I hred unto Satan, that they
may learn not to blaspheme.

2:1 I exhort ththat, first of all, supplications, prayers,
intercessions, and giving  be made for all men; 2:2 For
kings, and for all that are in authoritymay lead a quiet and
peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

2:3 is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour;
2:4 Who will en to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge
of the truth.

2:5 For one God, and one mediator between God and men, the
man Christ Jesus; 2e himself a ransom for all, to be
testified in due time.

2:7 Whereuntained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak the
truth in Christ, and li teacher of the Gentiles in faith and
verity.

2:8 I will therefore thy every where, lifting up holy hands,
without wrath and doubting.

2:9anner also, that women adorn themselves in modest
apparel, with shamefd sobriety; not with broided hair, or
gold, or pearls, or costly array (which becometh women
professing godliness) with good works.

2:11 Lean learn in silence with all subjection.

2:12 But I suffer not a woma nor to usurp authority over
the man, but to be in silence.

2:13 For irst formed, then Eve.

2:14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman ived was in
the transgression.

2:15 Notwithstanding she shall be savebearing, if they
continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriThis is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop, he
desid work.

3:2 A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to
teach; 3:3 Not wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre;
but patient, not a brawovetous; 3:4 One that ruleth well his
own house, having his children iion with all gravity; 3:5
(For if a man know not how to rule his own hhall he take
care of the church of God?)  3:6 Not a novice, lest being
with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil.

3:7 Moreover e a good report of them which are without;
lest he fall into reproach are of the devil.

3:8 Likewise must the deacons be grave, not doubletgiven
to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre; 3:9 Holding the mysterfaith in a pure conscience.

3:10 And let these also first be proved; them use the office
of a deacon, being found blameless.

3:11 Even so  wives be grave, not slanderers, sober,
faithful in all things.

3:12 acons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their
children and their ownell.

3:13 For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase, and great boldness in the faith which is in
Christ Jesus.

3:14 The come unto thee shortly:
3:15 But if I tarry long, that thou mayest knu oughtest to
behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church ng
God, the pillar and ground of the truth.

3:16 And without controvestery of godliness: God
was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Sp of angels,
preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, recento
glory.

4:1 Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter 
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and
docdevils; 4:2 Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their
conscience searedt iron; 4:3 Forbidding to marry, and
commanding to abstain from meats, hath created to be
received with thanksgiving of them which believe atruth.

4:4 For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refus be received with thanksgiving: 4:5 For it is sanctified by the word
o prayer.

4:6 If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things,lt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of
faf good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained.

4:7 But refuse profane wives’ fables, and exercise thyself
rather unto godliness.

4:8 Forxercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable
unto all things,romise of the life that now is, and of that
which is to come.

4:9 Thisaying and worthy of all acceptation.

4:10 For therefore we both laboer reproach, because we
trust in the living God, who is the Saviour ofthose that believe.

4:11 These things command and teach.

4:12 Let nose thy youth; but be thou an example of the
believers, in word, in con in charity, in spirit, in faith,
in purity.

4:13 Till I come, give ato reading, to exhortation, to
doctrine.

4:14 Neglect not the gift thhee, which was given thee by
prophecy, with the laying on of the handssbytery.

4:15 Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to themprofiting may appear to all.

4:16 Take heed unto thyself, and unto thcontinue in them:
for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself, and hear
thee.

5:1 Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father; and 
men as brethren; 5:2 The elder women as mothers; the younger as
sistell purity.

5:3 Honour widows that are widows indeed.

5:4 But if any children or nephews, let them learn first to
shew piety at home, and ttheir parents: for that is good and
acceptable before God.

5:5 Now sha widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and
continueth in suppld prayers night and day.

5:6 But she that liveth in pleasure is dead iveth.

5:7 And these things give in charge, that they may be blamelest if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his
own hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.

5:9 Let not a wid into the number under threescore years
old, having been the wife of o5:10 Well reported of for good works; if she have brought up children,ave lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints’ feet, if
she haed the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every
good work.

5: younger widows refuse: for when they have begun to wax
wanton againstey will marry; 5:12 Having damnation, because
they have cast off their.

5:13 And withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house tand not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking
things w ought not.

5:14 I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak
reproach some are already turned aside after Satan.

5:16 If any man or woman eth have widows, let them relieve
them, and let not the church be char it may relieve them that
are widows indeed.

5:17 Let the elders that be counted worthy of double honour,
especially they who labour in the doctrine.

5:18 For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the oxdeth out the corn. And, The labourer is worthy of his reward.

5:19 Ag elder receive not an accusation, but before two or
three witnesses.

that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear.

5:21 I charge e God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the
elect angels, that thou obse things without preferring one
before another, doing nothing by partia:22 Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men’sp thyself pure.

5:23 Drink no longer water, but use a little wine forach’s
sake and thine often infirmities.

5:24 Some men’s sins are and, going before to judgment;
and some men they follow after.

5:25 Lso the good works of some are manifest beforehand; and
they that are ocannot be hid.

6:1 Let as many servants as are under the yoke count t masters
worthy of all honour, that the name of God and his doctrine bphemed.

6:2 And they that have believing masters, let them not despisecause they are brethren; but rather do them service, because they
arend beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach
and exhort.

 man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words,
even the worLord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is
according to godlinesss proud, knowing nothing, but doting
about questions and strifes of woof cometh envy, strife,
railings, evil surmisings, 6:5 Perverse disputen of corrupt
minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain i:
from such withdraw thyself.

6:6 But godliness with contentment is g.

6:7 For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we cathing out.

6:8 And having food and raiment let us be therewith content they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and
into maand hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction
and perdition.

6:10 of money is the root of all evil: which while some
coveted after, thefrom the faith, and pierced themselves
through with many sorrows.

6:1, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after
righteousness, godaith, love, patience, meekness.

6:12 Fight the good fight of faith, ln eternal life,
whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a gssion
before many witnesses.

6:13 I give thee charge in the sight of quickeneth all
things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilsed a
good confession; 6:14 That thou keep this commandment without spukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ: 6:15 Which
in hie shall shew, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the
King of kingsd of lords; 6:16 Who only hath immortality,
dwelling in the light whican approach unto; whom no man hath
seen, nor can see: to whom be honou everlasting. Amen.

6:17 Charge them that are rich in this world, thanot
highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, h us richly all things to enjoy; 6:18 That they do good, that
they be ood works, ready to distribute, willing to
communicate; 6:19 Laying upfor themselves a good foundation
against the time to come, that they mld on eternal life.

6:20 O Timothy, keep that which is committed to tvoiding
profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely: 6:21 Which some professing have erred concerning the faith.
Grace bee. Amen.




The Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Timothy


1:1 Ppostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to
the promise ofch is in Christ Jesus, 1:2 To Timothy,
my dearly beloved son: Grace, m peace, from God the Father
and Christ Jesus our Lord.

1:3 I thank Goerve from my forefathers with pure
conscience, that without ceasing I rance of thee in my
prayers night and day; 1:4 Greatly desiring to seeng mindful
of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy; 1:5 When I calbrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in
thy gLois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that
in thee also.

1:e I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of
God, which iby the putting on of my hands.

1:7 For God hath not given us the spirr; but of power, and of
love, and of a sound mind.

1:8 Be not thou thhamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of
me his prisoner: but be tho of the afflictions of the gospel
according to the power of God; 1:9 Waved us, and called us
with an holy calling, not according to our workrding to his
own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesuse
world began, 1:10 But is now made manifest by the appearing of our
Sesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life
and immoro light through the gospel: 1:11 Whereunto I am
appointed a preacher, stle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.

1:12 For the which cause I also se things: nevertheless I am
not ashamed: for I know whom I have beliem persuaded that he
is able to keep that which I have committed unto h that day.

1:13 Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast he,
in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:14 That good thing whommitted unto thee keep by the Holy
Ghost which dwelleth in us.

1:15 nowest, that all they which are in Asia be turned away
from me; of whoellus and Hermogenes.

1:16 The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesfor he oft
refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain: 1:17 But, whin Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.

1:18 The Lornto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in
that day: and in how mane ministered unto me at Ephesus,
thou knowest very well.

2:1 Thou theson, be strong in the grace that is in Christ
Jesus.

2:2 And the thinast heard of me among many witnesses,
the same commit thou to faithfulhall be able to teach
others also.

2:3 Thou therefore endure hardness soldier of Jesus Christ.

2:4 No man that warreth entangleth himself fairs of this
life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a
2:5 And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned,
exive lawfully.

2:6 The husbandman that laboureth must be first partakeuits.

2:7 Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding i2:8 Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from
thording to my gospel: 2:9 Wherein I suffer trouble, as an
evil doer, evnds; but the word of God is not bound.

2:10 Therefore I endure all ththe elect’s sakes, that they
may also obtain the salvation which is esus with eternal
glory.

2:11 It is a faithful saying: For if we be dim, we shall
also live with him: 2:12 If we suffer, we shall also reig:
if we deny him, he also will deny us: 2:13 If we believe not, yet hethful: he cannot deny himself.

2:14 Of these things put them in rememarging them before the
Lord that they strive not about words to no pro the
subverting of the hearers.

2:15 Study to shew thyself approved uorkman that needeth
not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of trBut shun profane and vain babblings: for they will increase unto
more .

2:17 And their word will eat as doth a canker: of whom is Hymenaeusus; 2:18 Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that
the resurrect already; and overthrow the faith of some.

2:19 Nevertheless the fou God standeth sure, having this
seal, The Lord knoweth them that are het every one that
nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.

2:2great house there are not only vessels of gold and of
silver, but alsond of earth; and some to honour, and some to
dishonour.

2:21 If a man purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel
unto honour, sanctifie for the master’s use, and prepared
unto every good work.

2:22 Fleeful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith,
charity, peace, with them n the Lord out of a pure heart.

2:23 But foolish and unlearned questi knowing that they do
gender strifes.

2:24 And the servant of the Lorstrive; but be gentle unto
all men, apt to teach, patient, 2:25 In meeructing those
that oppose themselves; if God peradventure will give thance
to the acknowledging of the truth; 2:26 And that they may recoverout of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him
at his wils know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.

3:2 Forbe lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters,
proud, blasphemers,nt to parents, unthankful, unholy, 3:3
Without natural affection, truc false accusers, incontinent,
fierce, despisers of those that are goodtors, heady,
highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; a
form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn awa of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead
captive sillyn with sins, led away with divers lusts, 3:7
Ever learning, and never me to the knowledge of the truth.

3:8 Now as Jannes and Jambres withs, so do these also resist
the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate c the faith.

3:9 But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shfest unto all men, as theirs also was.

3:10 But thou hast fully knownne, manner of life, purpose,
faith, longsuffering, charity, patience, utions,
afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lysersecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered
me.

3:1all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer
persecution.

3:men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving,
and being deceiBut continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast
been , knowing of whom thou hast learned them; 3:15 And that
from a child town the holy scriptures, which are able to
make thee wise unto salvatih faith which is in Christ Jesus.

3:16 All scripture is given by inspf God, and is profitable
for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, foion in
righteousness: 3:17 That the man of God may be perfect, throughhed unto all good works.

4:1 I charge thee therefore before God, and esus Christ, who
shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing agdom;
4:2 Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprov exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.

4:3 For the time will cohey will not endure sound doctrine;
but after their own lusts shall tho themselves teachers,
having itching ears; 4:4 And they shall turn awears from the
truth, and shall be turned unto fables.

4:5 But watch tings, endure afflictions, do the work of
an evangelist, make full proostry.

4:6 For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departhand.

4:7 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I hae faith: 4:8 Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of
righteousne the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at
that day: and not to t unto all them also that love his
appearing.

4:9 Do thy diligence totly unto me: 4:10 For Demas hath
forsaken me, having loved this presenand is departed unto
Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus unto Dalatia.

4:11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: he
is profitable to me for the ministry.

4:12 And Tychicus have I senus.

4:13 The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comestth thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.

4:14 Alexanderrsmith did me much evil: the Lord reward him
according to his works: 4 be thou ware also; for he hath
greatly withstood our words.

4:16 At nswer no man stood with me, but all men forsook me:
I pray God that ite laid to their charge.

4:17 Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, thened me; that
by me the preaching might be fully known, and that alles
might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.

4:18ord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will
preserve me unto h kingdom: to whom be glory for ever and
ever. Amen.

4:19 Salute Prisca, and the household of Onesiphorus.

4:20 Erastus abode at Corinth: bs have I left at Miletum
sick.

4:21 Do thy diligence to come before wulus greeteth thee,
and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the br
4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you.
Amee Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Titus


1:1 Paul, a servant of God, atle of Jesus Christ, according
to the faith of God’s elect, and the ing of the truth which
is after godliness; 1:2 In hope of eternal lifed, that
cannot lie, promised before the world began; 1:3 But hath in danifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me
accore commandment of God our Saviour; 1:4 To Titus, mine
own son after theth: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the
Father and the Lord Jesus Chaviour.

1:5 For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest der the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as
Iinted thee: 1:6 If any be blameless, the husband of one
wife, having fildren not accused of riot or unruly.

1:7 For a bishop must be blamele steward of God; not
selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, nnot given
to filthy lucre; 1:8 But a lover of hospitality, a lover of ber, just, holy, temperate; 1:9 Holding fast the faithful word as he
haught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort
and to congainsayers.

1:10 For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceiially they of the circumcision: 1:11 Whose mouths must be stopped,
whoouses, teaching things which they ought not, for
filthy lucre’s saker own, said, The
Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.
tness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they
may be sound it giving heed to Jewish fables, and
commandments of men, that turn froth.

1:15 Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are de unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is
de16 They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him,
being e, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.

2:1 But speak things which become sound doctrine: 2:2 That
the aged men be sober, gperate, sound in faith, in charity,
in patience.

2:3 The aged women lhat they be in behaviour as becometh
holiness, not false accusers, notmuch wine, teachers of good
things; 2:4 That they may teach the young er, to love
their husbands, to love their children, 2:5 To be discreet
keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word
ot blasphemed.

2:6 Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.

2:7ings shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine
shewing unco gravity, sincerity, 2:8 Sound speech, that
cannot be condemned; that s of the contrary part may be
ashamed, having no evil thing to say of ort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to
please them things; not answering again; 2:10 Not
purloining, but shewing all gooy; that they may adorn the
doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all
men, 2:1 us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we
should live soberlsly, and godly, in this present world;
2:13 Looking for that blessed he glorious appearing of the
great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; 2:ve himself for us,
that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and puriself a
peculiar people, zealous of good works.

2:15 These things speaort, and rebuke with all authority.
Let no man despise thee.

3:1 Put nd to be subject to principalities and powers, to
obey magistrates, to to every good work, 3:2 To speak evil of
no man, to be no brawlers, b shewing all meekness unto all
men.

3:3 For we ourselves also were sofoolish, disobedient,
deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, ling in malice and
envy, hateful, and hating one another.

3:4 But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man
appeared, 3:Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but
according to hisaved us, by the washing of regeneration,
and renewing of the Holy Ghosch he shed on us abundantly
through Jesus Christ our Saviour; 3:7 Thattified by his
grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of fe.

3:8 This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou
stantly, that they which have believed in God might be
careful to mainworks. These things are good and profitable
unto men.

3:9 But avoid fstions, and genealogies, and contentions, and
strivings about the law;are unprofitable and vain.

3:10 A man that is an heretick after the fecond admonition
reject; 3:11 Knowing that he that is such is subverteeth,
being condemned of himself.

3:12 When I shall send Artemas unto Tychicus, be diligent to
come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determio winter.

3:13 Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey dithat nothing be wanting unto them.

3:14 And let ours also learn to mad works for necessary
uses, that they be not unfruitful.

3:15 All tha me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the
faith. Grace be with yen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to Philemon


1:1 Paul, a prissus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto
Philemon our dearly beloved,wlabourer, 1:2 And to our
beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsold the church in
thy house: 1:3 Grace to you, and peace, from God our Fahe
Lord Jesus Christ.

1:4 I thank my God, making mention of thee alwaayers, 1:5
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the L
and toward all saints; 1:6 That the communication of thy faith may
beual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in
you in Christ:7 For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the
bowesaints are refreshed by thee, brother.

1:8 Wherefore, though I might d in Christ to enjoin thee
that which is convenient, 1:9 Yet for love rather beseech
thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also of
Jesus Christ.

1:10 I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I havin my
bonds: 1:11 Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but nowe to thee and to me: 1:12 Whom I have sent again: thou
therefore receiat is, mine own bowels: 1:13 Whom I would
have retained with me, that ad he might have ministered unto
me in the bonds of the gospel: 1:14 Bt thy mind would I do
nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it wessity, but
willingly.

1:15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a se thou
shouldest receive him for ever; 1:16 Not now as a servant, but aant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto
thee, e flesh, and in the Lord?  1:17 If thou count me
therefore a partner, m as myself.

1:18 If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put te
account; 1:19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repait I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own
self bes20 Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my
boweld.

1:21 Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowingou wilt also do more than I say.

1:22 But withal prepare me also a lo I trust that through
your prayers I shall be given unto you.

1:23 Th thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;
1:24 Marcus, Aristaas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.

1:25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Chrisyour spirit. Amen.




The Epistle of Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews
 who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past
unto the the prophets, 1:2 Hath in these last days spoken
unto us by his Son,  hath appointed heir of all things, by whom
also he made the worlds; 1ing the brightness of his glory,
and the express image of his person, ing all things by the
word of his power, when he had by himself purged sat down on
the right hand of the Majesty on high: 1:4 Being made so er
than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellenn they.

1:5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou arthis day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father,
all be to me a Son?  1:6 And again, when he bringeth in the
firstbegotthe world, he saith, And let all the angels of God
worship him.

1:7 Anngels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his
ministers a flae.

1:8 But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and
ptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.

1:9 Thou hast loousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God,
even thy God, hath anointeh the oil of gladness above thy
fellows.

1:10 And, Thou, Lord, in the hast laid the foundation of the
earth; and the heavens are the works nds: 1:11 They shall
perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall waoth a
garment; 1:12 And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and theyhanged: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.

1:13 Butof the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right
hand, until I make es thy footstool?  1:14 Are they not all
ministering spirits, sent forter for them who shall be
heirs of salvation?  2:1 Therefore we ought e more earnest
heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any timld let
them slip.

2:2 For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, ransgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward;
2:l we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at
the first begaoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by
them that heard him; 2: bearing them witness, both with
signs and wonders, and with divers mi gifts of the Holy
Ghost, according to his own will?  2:5 For unto theh he not
put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.

2:6 Ba certain place testified, saying, What is man, that
thou art mindful  the son of man that thou visitest him?
2:7 Thou madest him a little l the angels; thou crownedst him
with glory and honour, and didst set hworks of thy hands:
2:8 Thou hast put all things in subjection under hor in that
he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that isnder him.

But now we see not yet all things put under him.

2:9 But w, who was made a little lower than the angels for
the suffering of dea with glory and honour; that he by the
grace of God should taste deathman.

2:10 For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom ares, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their
salvect through sufferings.

2:11 For both he that sanctifieth and they whified are all
of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them b:12
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of will I sing praise unto thee.

2:13 And again, I will put my trust in again, Behold I and
the children which God hath given me.

2:14 Forasm the children are partakers of flesh and blood,
he also himself likewirt of the same; that through death he
might destroy him that had the pth, that is, the devil;
2:15 And deliver them who through fear of deat their
lifetime subject to bondage.

2:16 For verily he took not on hire of angels; but he took
on him the seed of Abraham.

2:17 Wherefore ngs it behoved him to be made like unto his
brethren, that he might bel and faithful high priest in
things pertaining to God, to make reconc for the sins of the
people.

2:18 For in that he himself hath suffereempted, he is able to
succour them that are tempted.

3:1 Wherefore, hen, partakers of the heavenly calling,
consider the Apostle and High Pur profession, Christ Jesus;
3:2 Who was faithful to him that appointe also Moses was
faithful in all his house.

3:3 For this man was countof more glory than Moses, inasmuch
as he who hath builded the house haonour than the house.

3:4 For every house is builded by some man; butuilt all
things is God.

3:5 And Moses verily was faithful in all his a servant, for
a testimony of those things which were to be spoken aftut
Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold
nfidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.

3:7 WherefoHoly Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his
voice, 3:8 Harden not youas in the provocation, in the day
of temptation in the wilderness: 3:9fathers tempted me,
proved me, and saw my works forty years.

3:10 Wheas grieved with that generation, and said, They do
alway err in their they have not known my ways.

3:11 So I sware in my wrath, They shall to my rest.)  3:12
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you ant of
unbelief, in departing from the living God.

3:13 But exhort one ily, while it is called To day; lest any
of you be hardened through thness of sin.

3:14 For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the of
our confidence stedfast unto the end; 3:15 While it is said, To dall hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.

3:1, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that
came out of Eses.

3:17 But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with tad sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?  3:18 And to
whom swt they should not enter into his rest, but to them
that believed not? we see that they could not enter in
because of unbelief.

4:1 Let us tfear, lest, a promise being left us of entering
into his rest, any of  seem to come short of it.

4:2 For unto us was the gospel preached, aunto them: but the
word preached did not profit them, not being mixed h in them
that heard it.

4:3 For we which have believed do enter intohe said, As I
have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my resth the
works were finished from the foundation of the world.

4:4 For h in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise,
And God did rest h day from all his works.

4:5 And in this place again, If they shall o my rest.

4:6 Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter thethey to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief:n, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after
so long ait is said, To day if ye will hear his voice,
harden not your hearts.
if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have
spoken r day.

4:9 There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.

4:that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from
his own works,d from his.

4:11 Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lesfall after the same example of unbelief.

4:12 For the word of God is  powerful, and sharper than any
twoedged sword, piercing even to the dunder of soul and
spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discee
thoughts and intents of the heart.

4:13 Neither is there any creatu not manifest in his sight:
but all things are naked and opened unto thim with whom we
have to do.

4:14 Seeing then that we have a great hi that is passed into
the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold faofession.

4:15 For we have not an high priest which cannot be touchede
feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as wewithout sin.

4:16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of gra
may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.

5:1 For evriest taken from among men is ordained for men in
things pertaining tohe may offer both gifts and sacrifices
for sins: 5:2 Who can have compthe ignorant, and on them
that are out of the way; for that he himselfompassed with
infirmity.

5:3 And by reason hereof he ought, as for thlso for
himself, to offer for sins.

5:4 And no man taketh this honourmself, but he that is called
of God, as was Aaron.

5:5 So also Christd not himself to be made an high priest;
but he that said unto him, ThSon, to day have I begotten
thee.

5:6 As he saith also in another plart a priest for ever
after the order of Melchisedec.

5:7 Who in the d flesh, when he had offered up prayers and
supplications with strong ctears unto him that was able to
save him from death, and was heard in ared; 5:8 Though he
were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the thingsuffered;
5:9 And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal s
unto all them that obey him; 5:10 Called of God an high priest after
of Melchisedec.

5:11 Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to ,
seeing ye are dull of hearing.

5:12 For when for the time ye ought ers, ye have need that
one teach you again which be the first principloracles of
God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of s

5:13 For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of
rightfor he is a babe.

5:14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are of even
those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discernand evil.

6:1 Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Chrs
go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentanceworks, and of faith toward God, 6:2 Of the doctrine of
baptisms, and on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead,
and of eternal judgment.
is will we do, if God permit.

6:4 For it is impossible for those who enlightened, and have
tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partae Holy
Ghost, 6:5 And have tasted the good word of God, and the powersld to come, 6:6 If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto
repeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh,
and put him to ahame.

6:7 For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upd bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed,
receiveth rom God: 6:8 But that which beareth thorns and
briers is rejected, andto cursing; whose end is to be
burned.

6:9 But, beloved, we are persur things of you, and things
that accompany salvation, though we thus s For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of
love, whe shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered
to the saints, aner.

6:11 And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligenfull assurance of hope unto the end: 6:12 That ye be not slothful,
but of them who through faith and patience inherit the
promises.

6:13 Fo made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by
no greater, he swalf, 6:14 Saying, Surely blessing I will
bless thee, and multiplying I ply thee.

6:15 And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained th

6:16 For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmatihem an end of all strife.

6:17 Wherein God, willing more abundantly t the heirs of
promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by, in which it was impossible for God to
lie, we might have a strong co refuge to
lay hold upon the hope set before us: 6:19 Which hope we ha of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into
that wit:20 Whither the forerunner is for us entered,
even Jesus, made an high ever after the order of
Melchisedec.

7:1 For this Melchisedec, king priest of the most high God,
who met Abraham returning from the slaughkings, and blessed
him; 7:2 To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of being by
interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also Kin which is, King of peace; 7:3 Without father, without mother,
without ving neither beginning of days, nor end of life;
but made like unto thGod; abideth a priest continually.

7:4 Now consider how great this ma whom even the patriarch
Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils.

7:5 Anhat are of the sons of Levi, who receive the
office of the priesthood,mandment to take tithes of the
people according to the law, that is, oethren, though they
come out of the loins of Abraham: 7:6 But he whoseis not
counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him t promises.

7:7 And without all contradiction the less is blessed of t.

7:8 And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth tht is witnessed that he liveth.

7:9 And as I may so say, Levi also, wheth tithes, payed tithes
in Abraham.

7:10 For he was yet in the loinsther, when Melchisedec met
him.

7:11 If therefore perfection were by cal priesthood, (for
under it the people received the law,) what furths there
that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec be called after the order of Aaron?  7:12 For the priesthood being
che is made of necessity a change also of the law.

7:13 For he of whom s are spoken pertaineth to another
tribe, of which no man gave attendaaltar.

7:14 For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; of whMoses spake nothing concerning priesthood.

7:15 And it is yet far morfor that after the similitude of
Melchisedec there ariseth another priho is made, not after
the law of a carnal commandment, but after the pendless
life.

7:17 For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after of
Melchisedec.

7:18 For there is verily a disannulling of the commng
before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.

7:19 For theothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better
hope did; by the whichh unto God.

7:20 And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made prieFor
those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by  said unto him, The Lord sware and will not repent, Thou art a
priest ter the order of Melchisedec:) 7:22 By so much was
Jesus made a suretyer testament.

7:23 And they truly were many priests, because they werered
to continue by reason of death: 7:24 But this man, because he
coner, hath an unchangeable priesthood.

7:25 Wherefore he is able also tm to the uttermost that come
unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth tocession for them.

7:26 For such an high priest became us, who is holy,
undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
eedeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up
sacrifice, first  sins, and then for the people’s: for this
he did once, when he offeelf.

7:28 For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; bd of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is
consecrrmore.

8:1 Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We an high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the
Maj heavens; 8:2 A minister of the sanctuary, and of the
true tabernacle, Lord pitched, and not man.

8:3 For every high priest is ordained to ts and sacrifices:
wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somto
offer.

8:4 For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seet
there are priests that offer gifts according to the law: 8:5 Who ser example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was
admonished of Godas about to make the tabernacle: for, See,
saith he, that thou make alcording to the pattern shewed to
thee in the mount.

8:6 But now hath d a more excellent ministry, by how much
also he is the mediator of a nant, which was established
upon better promises.

8:7 For if that fir had been faultless, then should no
place have been sought for the secFor finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come,
saith then I will make a new covenant with the house of
Israel and with the hoah: 8:9 Not according to the covenant
that I made with their fathers iwhen I took them by the hand
to lead them out of the land of Egypt; becontinued not in
my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. this is the covenant that I will make with the house of
Israel after , saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their
mind, and write them irts: and I will be to them a God, and
they shall be to me a people: 8:y shall not teach every man
his neighbour, and every man his brother, ow the Lord: for
all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.

8I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins
and their  will I remember no more.

8:13 In that he saith, A new covenant, he hhe first old. Now
that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanis9:1 Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine
servily sanctuary.

9:2 For there was a tabernacle made; the first, whereine
candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the
s:3 And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the
Holie 9:4 Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the
covenant overlaidt with gold, wherein was the golden pot
that had manna, and Aaron’s ded, and the tables of the
covenant; 9:5 And over it the cherubims of wing the
mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly.

9:6 Nose things were thus ordained, the priests went always
into the first taccomplishing the service of God.

9:7 But into the second went the hilone once every year,
not without blood, which he offered for himself,e errors of
the people: 9:8 The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the we
holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first
tabernat standing: 9:9 Which was a figure for the time then
present, in whichred both gifts and sacrifices, that could
not make him that did the seect, as pertaining to the
conscience; 9:10 Which stood only in meats a and divers
washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until theformation.

9:11 But Christ being come an high priest of good things t a
greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is tof this building; 9:12 Neither by the blood of goats and
calves, but blood he entered in once into the holy place,
having obtained eternal r for us.

9:13 For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes o sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the
flesh: 9: more shall the blood of Christ, who through the
eternal Spirit offerewithout spot to God, purge your
conscience from dead works to serve thod?  9:15 And for this
cause he is the mediator of the new testament, ns of death,
for the redemption of the transgressions that were under testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal
.

9:16 For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the
 the testator.

9:17 For a testament is of force after men are dead: o is
of no strength at all while the testator liveth.

9:18 Whereupon n first testament was dedicated without
blood.

9:19 For when Moses hadery precept to all the people
according to the law, he took the blood and of goats, with
water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled ok, and
all the people, 9:20 Saying, This is the blood of the testamenod hath enjoined unto you.

9:21 Moreover he sprinkled with blood bothacle, and all the
vessels of the ministry.

9:22 And almost all thingse law purged with blood; and
without shedding of blood is no remission was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the
heavens shified with these; but the heavenly things
themselves with better sacrithese.

9:24 For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with ch are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to
appear ence of God for us: 9:25 Nor yet that he should
offer himself often, apriest entereth into the holy place
every year with blood of others; 9n must he often have
suffered since the foundation of the world: but nthe end of
the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrificef.

9:27 And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this tt: 9:28 So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many;
and unto ook for him shall he appear the second time
without sin unto salvationFor the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the
very ie things, can never with those sacrifices which they
offered year by yually make the comers thereunto perfect.

10:2 For then would they notd to be offered? because that
the worshippers once purged should have e conscience of
sins.

10:3 But in those sacrifices there is a remembrmade of sins
every year.

10:4 For it is not possible that the blood ond of goats
should take away sins.

10:5 Wherefore when he cometh into he saith, Sacrifice and
offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast td me: 10:6 In
burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no 10:7 Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written
 do thy will, O God.

10:8 Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering  offerings
and offering for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleaswhich are offered by the law; 10:9 Then said he, Lo, I come
to do thy d. He taketh away the first, that he may establish
the second.

10:10 ch will we are sanctified through the offering of the
body of Jesus Chfor all.

10:11 And every priest standeth daily ministering and offeries the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins: 10:12
But thisfter he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever,
sat down on the rof God; 10:13 From henceforth expecting
till his enemies be made his f
10:14 For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are
sa
10:15 Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us: for after that
d before, 10:16 This is the covenant that I will make with
them after , saith the Lord, I will put my laws into their
hearts, and in their m I write them; 10:17 And their sins and
iniquities will I remember no 8 Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for
sin.
ng therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest
by the bloo, 10:20 By a new and living way, which he hath
consecrated for us, threil, that is to say, his flesh; 10:21
And having an high priest over tf God; 10:22 Let us draw
near with a true heart in full assurance of fg our hearts
sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed water.

10:23 Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavor he is faithful that promised;) 10:24 And let us consider one
anotheke unto love and to good works: 10:25 Not forsaking
the assembling of together, as the manner of some is; but
exhorting one another: and so he more, as ye see the day
approaching.

10:26 For if we sin wilfully  we have received the knowledge
of the truth, there remaineth no more or sins, 10:27 But a
certain fearful looking for of judgment and fieryn, which
shall devour the adversaries.

10:28 He that despised Moseswithout mercy under two or
three witnesses: 10:29 Of how much sorer pusuppose ye, shall
he be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot thod, and
hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctnholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace?
10:30 Forim that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I
will recompense, sai. And again, The Lord shall judge his
people.

10:31 It is a fearful tll into the hands of the living God.

10:32 But call to remembrance thys, in which, after ye were
illuminated, ye endured a great fight of a 10:33 Partly,
whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches anns;
and partly, whilst ye became companions of them that were so used. ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the
spoiling ods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a
better and an endurnce.

10:35 Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great
ce of reward.

10:36 For ye have need of patience, that, after ye haveill
of God, ye might receive the promise.

10:37 For yet a little whilthat shall come will come, and
will not tarry.

10:38 Now the just shaaith: but if any man draw back, my
soul shall have no pleasure in him.t we are not of them who draw back unto perdition; but of them
that bee saving of the soul.

11:1 Now faith is the substance of things hopedevidence of
things not seen.

11:2 For by it the elders obtained a goo11:3 Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the
woso that things which are seen were not made of things
which do appear.aith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than
Cain, by whained witness that he was righteous, God
testifying of his gifts: and eing dead yet speaketh.

11:5 By faith Enoch was translated that he she death; and
was not found, because God had translated him: for beforeation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

11:6 But without fampossible to please him: for he that
cometh to God must believe that hhat he is a rewarder of
them that diligently seek him.

11:7 By faith g warned of God of things not seen as yet,
moved with fear, prepared a the saving of his house; by the
which he condemned the world, and bece righteousness
which is by faith.

11:8 By faith Abraham, when he waso go out into a place which
he should after receive for an inheritancend he went out,
not knowing whither he went.

11:9 By faith he sojournland of promise, as in a strange
country, dwelling in tabernacles with Jacob, the heirs with
him of the same promise: 11:10 For he looked fowhich hath
foundations, whose builder and maker is God.

11:11 Through Sara herself received strength to conceive
seed, and was delivered ofen she was past age, because she
judged him faithful who had promised.erefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so
many as of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by
the sea shore inn11:13 These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but
h them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced
them, and con they were strangers and pilgrims on the
earth.

11:14 For they that sthings declare plainly that they seek a
country.

11:15 And truly, if een mindful of that country from whence
they came out, they might havetunity to have returned.

11:16 But now they desire a better country,  heavenly:
wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for hered for them a city.

11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offer: and he
that had received the promises offered up his only begotten sOf whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called: 11:19
Acct God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from
whence also hhim in a figure.

11:20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerni to come.

11:21 By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both theseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.

11:22 By faihen he died, made mention of the departing of
the children of Israel; mmandment concerning his bones.

11:23 By faith Moses, when he was bor three months of his
parents, because they saw he was a proper child; re not
afraid of the king’s commandment.

11:24 By faith Moses, whene to years, refused to be called
the son of Pharaoh’s daughter; 11:2rather to suffer
affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the f sin
for a season; 11:26 Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riche treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompence of
the r27 By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king:
for h, as seeing him who is invisible.

11:28 Through faith he kept the pasd the sprinkling of blood,
lest he that destroyed the firstborn should.

11:29 By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: whicians assaying to do were drowned.

11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho after they were
compassed about seven days.

11:31 By faith the harlorished not with them that believed
not, when she had received the spiece.

11:32 And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to ten, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also,
and Sa: 11:33 Who through faith subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obts.

11:34 Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to
flight t.

11:35 Women received their dead raised to life again: and others we, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better
resurrect And others had trial of cruel mockings and
scourgings, yea, moreover d imprisonment: 11:37 They were
stoned, they were sawn asunder, were te slain with the
sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskinestitute, afflicted, tormented; 11:38 (Of whom the world was not
worthandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and
caves of the ear And these all, having obtained a good report through faith,
received omise: 11:40 God having provided some better thing
for us, that they wshould not be made perfect.

12:1 Wherefore seeing we also are compassith so great a
cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and hich
doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race thefore us, 12:2 Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our
faiththe joy that was set before him endured the cross,
despising the shamet down at the right hand of the throne
of God.

12:3 For consider him ch contradiction of sinners
against himself, lest ye be wearied and fainds.

12:4 Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as
unto chion, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord,
nor faint when thou ad of him: 12:6 For whom the Lord loveth
he chasteneth, and scourgeth e whom he receiveth.

12:7 If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with yosons; for
what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?  12:8 But if hout chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards,
anurthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us,
and wereverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection
unto the Father o and live?  12:10 For they verily for a few
days chastened us after theasure; but he for our profit,
that we might be partakers of his holin Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but
grievous:ess afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
righteousness unto thre exercised thereby.

12:12 Wherefore lift up the hands which hang dofeeble
knees; 12:13 And make straight paths for your feet, lest that wme be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.

12:14 Folloh all men, and holiness, without which no man
shall see the Lord: 12:1diligently lest any man fail of the
grace of God; lest any root of bitinging up trouble you,
and thereby many be defiled; 12:16 Lest there bator, or
profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his


12:17 For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited tng, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though
he sorefully with tears.

12:18 For ye are not come unto the mount that miged, and
that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and t2:19 And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice
theard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them
any more: 1they could not endure that which was commanded,
And if so much as a be the mountain, it shall be stoned, or
thrust through with a dart: 12:2errible was the sight, that
Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)t ye are come unto
mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, th
Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, 12:23 To the
geney and church of the firstborn, which are written in
heaven, and to Godof all, and to the spirits of just men
made perfect, 12:24 And to Jesuator of the new covenant, and
to the blood of sprinkling, that speakethings than that of
Abel.

12:25 See that ye refuse not him that speakethey escaped
not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall pe, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven: 12:26
Whose vohook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying,
Yet once more I shakearth only, but also heaven.

12:27 And this word, Yet once more, sign removing of those
things that are shaken, as of things that are made, things
which cannot be shaken may remain.

12:28 Wherefore we receividom which cannot be moved, let us
have grace, whereby we may serve Gody with reverence and
godly fear: 12:29 For our God is a consuming fireet brotherly love continue.

13:2 Be not forgetful to entertain stranghereby some have
entertained angels unawares.

13:3 Remember them thatnds, as bound with them; and them
which suffer adversity, as being youso in the body.

13:4 Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefwhoremongers and adulterers God will judge.

13:5 Let your conversatiot covetousness; and be content
with such things as ye have: for he hatill never leave
thee, nor forsake thee.

13:6 So that we may boldly sa is my helper, and I will not
fear what man shall do unto me.

13:7 Reem which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto
you the word of faith follow, considering the end of their
conversation.

13:8 Jesus Came yesterday, and to day, and for ever.

13:9 Be not carried about wind strange doctrines. For it is
a good thing that the heart be establi grace; not with meats,
which have not profited them that have been ocein.

13:10 We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which nacle.

13:11 For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought ictuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.

13:12 Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his
own blood, sufout the gate.

13:13 Let us go forth therefore unto him without the ca his
reproach.

13:14 For here have we no continuing city, but we seeke.

13:15 By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to Godlly, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.

13:16 ood and to communicate forget not: for with such
sacrifices God is wel
13:17 Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves:
fch for your souls, as they that must give account, that
they may do itand not with grief: for that is unprofitable
for you.

13:18 Pray for trust we have a good conscience, in all
things willing to live honestlut I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored
to you r.

13:20 Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lthat great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the
everlasting, 13:21 Make you perfect in every good work to do
his will, working inhich is wellpleasing in his sight,
through Jesus Christ; to whom be glr and ever. Amen.

13:22 And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word tion: for
I have written a letter unto you in few words.

13:23 Know ybrother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom,
if he come shortly, I wi

13:24 Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saint Italy salute you.

13:25 Grace be with you all. Amen.




The Generalf James


1:1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ,
toe tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting.

1:2 My brethren, count when ye fall into divers
temptations; 1:3 Knowing this, that the tryi faith worketh
patience.

1:4 But let patience have her perfect work,  be perfect and
entire, wanting nothing.

1:5 If any of you lack wisdoask of God, that giveth to all
men liberally, and upbraideth not; and e given him.

1:6 But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he tth
is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.

1:7 Forhat man think that he shall receive any thing of the
Lord.

1:8 A doubman is unstable in all his ways.

1:9 Let the brother of low degree reat he is exalted: 1:10
But the rich, in that he is made low: because ar of the
grass he shall pass away.

1:11 For the sun is no sooner riserning heat, but it
withereth the grass, and the flower thereof fallethrace of
the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade aways.

1:12 Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he ie shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath
promised to the him.

1:13 Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: fot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man: 1:14 But
every maed, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and
enticed.

1:15 Then wheh conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin,
when it is finished, brindeath.

1:16 Do not err, my beloved brethren.

1:17 Every good gift anfect gift is from above, and cometh
down from the Father of lights, wio variableness, neither
shadow of turning.

1:18 Of his own will begath the word of truth, that we
should be a kind of firstfruits of his cr:19 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear,
slk, slow to wrath: 1:20 For the wrath of man worketh not
the righteousnd.

1:21 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of
naughtireceive with meekness the engrafted word, which is
able to save your s2 But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your
ow:23 For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like
untolding his natural face in a glass: 1:24 For he
beholdeth himself, andway, and straightway forgetteth what
manner of man he was.

1:25 But wh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth
therein, he being noul hearer, but a doer of the work, this
man shall be blessed in his deIf any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his
tongueveth his own heart, this man’s religion is vain.

1:27 Pure religionled before God and the Father is this, To
visit the fatherless and widion, and to keep
himself unspotted from the world.

2:1 My brethren, hthe faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord
of glory, with respect of2:2 For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in
goel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment; 2:3
And ye have him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto
him, Sit thou here ince; and say to the poor, Stand thou
there, or sit here under my footstre ye not then partial in
yourselves, and are become judges of evil th:5 Hearken, my
beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this in
faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that 2:6 But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress
you, and dfore the judgment seats?  2:7 Do not they
blaspheme that worthy name bh ye are called?  2:8 If ye
fulfil the royal law according to the scriu shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself, ye do well: 2:9 But if ye have 
persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one
point, he if all.

2:11 For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do nw if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a
tran the law.

2:12 So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged bf liberty.

2:13 For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath smercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment.

2:14 What doth it profitren, though a man say he hath faith,
and have not works? can faith sav15 If a brother or sister
be naked, and destitute of daily food, 2:16 you say unto
them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstgive them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it:17 Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being
alone.

2:18 Ymay say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me
thy faith without nd I will shew thee my faith by my
works.

2:19 Thou believest that th God; thou doest well: the devils
also believe, and tremble.

2:20 Butknow, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?
2:21 Was not Abraher justified by works, when he had
offered Isaac his son upon the altaest thou how faith
wrought with his works, and by works was faith made2:23 And
the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed Godas imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend
of4 Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by
faith oLikewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when
she ha the messengers, and had sent them out another way?
2:26 For as the bothe spirit is dead, so faith without
works is dead also.

3:1 My bretht many masters, knowing that we shall receive
the greater condemnationin many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word,
the same ct man, and able also to bridle the whole body.

3:3 Behold, we put bi horses’ mouths, that they may obey us;
and we turn about their whol:4 Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are
drive winds, yet are they turned about with a very small
helm, whithersoevernor listeth.

3:5 Even so the tongue is a little member, and boastethgs.

Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth!  3:6 And the t fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members,
that ihe whole body, and setteth on fire the course of
nature; and it is setf hell.

3:7 For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, ngs in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind: 3:8 But
the n no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly
poison.

3:9 There we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we
men, which are made aimilitude of God.

3:10 Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and y
brethren, these things ought not so to be.

3:11 Doth a fountain senthe same place sweet water and
bitter?  3:12 Can the fig tree, my bret olive berries?
either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield sal
fresh.

3:13 Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? lout of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom.

3:14 Buve bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory
not, and lie not agh.

3:15 This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensua
3:16 For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every
ev17 But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable,
geasy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits,
without partialityut hypocrisy.

3:18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace ofke
peace.

4:1 From whence come wars and fightings among you? come the even of your lusts that war in your members?  4:2 Ye lust, and
have n, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and
war, yet ye haveuse ye ask not.

4:3 Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, tht upon your lusts.

4:4 Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not thndship of
the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a he world is the enemy of God.

4:5 Do ye think that the scripture saitThe spirit that
dwelleth in us lusteth to envy?  4:6 But he giveth morerefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the
h Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will
fle

4:8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your
hannners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

4:9 Be afflicted, and weep: let your laughter be turned to
mourning, and your joy to heavi Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you
up.k not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of
his brotudgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and
judgeth the law: butdge the law, thou art not a doer of the
law, but a judge.

4:12 There r, who is able to save and to destroy: who
art thou that judgest anotho to now, ye that say, To day or
to morrow we will go into such a cityinue there a year, and
buy and sell, and get gain: 4:14 Whereas ye kno shall be on
the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, teth
for a little time, and then vanisheth away.

4:15 For that ye oughf the Lord will, we shall live, and do
this, or that.

4:16 But now yen your boastings: all such rejoicing is evil.

4:17 Therefore to him th to do good, and doeth it not, to
him it is sin.

5:1 Go to now, ye reep and howl for your miseries that shall
come upon you.

5:2 Your ricrupted, and your garments are motheaten.

5:3 Your gold and silver is and the rust of them shall be a
witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have
heaped treasure together for the last4 Behold, the hire of the labourers who have reaped down your
fields,  you kept back by fraud, crieth: and the cries of
them which have reapred into the ears of the Lord of
sabaoth.

5:5 Ye have lived in pleasuearth, and been wanton; ye have
nourished your hearts, as in a day of 5:6 Ye have condemned and killed the just; and he doth not resist you.tient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord.

Behold, the haiteth for the precious fruit of the earth,
and hath long patience for:8 Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the
LorGrudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned:
beholdefore the door.

5:10 Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spokenme of
the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patiencehold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the
patiencend have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is
very pitiful, and orcy.

5:12 But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heher by the earth, neither by any other oath: but let your yea be
yea; y, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.

5:13 Is any among you afflictm pray. Is any merry? let him
sing psalms.

5:14 Is any sick among youcall for the elders of the church;
and let them pray over him, anointi oil in the name of the
Lord: 5:15 And the prayer of faith shall save and the Lord
shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they sorgiven him.

5:16 Confess your faults one to another, and pray one fohat ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man
ch.

5:17 Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he pstly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by
the spae years and six months.

5:18 And he prayed again, and the heaven gaveought forth her fruit.

5:19 Brethren, if any of you do err from the td one convert
him; 5:20 Let him know, that he which converteth the sinhe
error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a
mulsins.




The First Epistle General of Peter


1:1 Peter, an apostle orist, to the strangers scattered
throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocind Bithynia, 1:2 Elect
according to the foreknowledge of God the Fatheanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the
bloo Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.

1:3 Blessed be theather of our Lord Jesus Christ, which
according to his abundant mercy en us again unto a lively
hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ fro, 1:4 To an
inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth eserved in heaven for you, 1:5 Who are kept by the power of God
througo salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.

1:6 Wherein ye greice, though now for a season, if need be,
ye are in heaviness through emptations: 1:7 That the trial
of your faith, being much more preciousld that perisheth,
though it be tried with fire, might be found unto phonour
and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ: 1:8 Whom having notlove; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice
wieakable and full of glory: 1:9 Receiving the end of your
faith, even tn of your souls.

1:10 Of which salvation the prophets have enquired a
diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:
1:ng what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which
was in themy, when it testified beforehand the sufferings
of Christ, and the glorld follow.

1:12 Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves,  us
they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by tave preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down
from heh things the angels desire to look into.

1:13 Wherefore gird up the lr mind, be sober, and hope to
the end for the grace that is to be brouu at the revelation
of Jesus Christ; 1:14 As obedient children, not faourselves
according to the former lusts in your ignorance: 1:15 But ashath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation;
se it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.

1:17 And if ye call on t who without respect of persons
judgeth according to every man’s wor time of your
sojourning here in fear: 1:18 Forasmuch as ye know that t
redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vainn received by tradition from your fathers; 1:19 But with
the precious hrist, as of a lamb without blemish and without
spot: 1:20 Who verily dained before the foundation of the
world, but was manifest in these l for you, 1:21 Who by him
do believe in God, that raised him up from tnd gave him
glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.

1:22 Seee purified your souls in obeying the truth through
the Spirit unto unfe of the brethren, see that ye love one
another with a pure heart ferv, not of
corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, w4 For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower
ofe grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:
1:25 But the wLord endureth for ever. And this is the word
which by the gospel is pr

2:1 Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisievies, all evil speakings, 2:2 As newborn babes, desire the
sincere milord, that ye may grow thereby: 2:3 If so be ye
have tasted that the Locious.

2:4 To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed t chosen of God, and precious, 2:5 Ye also, as lively stones, are
builritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual
sacrifices, ac God by Jesus Christ.

2:6 Wherefore also it is contained in the scripd, I lay in
Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that be
him shall not be confounded.

2:7 Unto you therefore which believe heous: but unto them
which be disobedient, the stone which the builders  the
same is made the head of the corner, 2:8 And a stone of stumblingck of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being
disobedieso they were appointed.

2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal pd, an holy
nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the prim who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light;
2:10 time past were not a people, but are now the people of
God: which haded mercy, but now have obtained mercy.

2:11 Dearly beloved, I beseechtrangers and pilgrims, abstain
from fleshly lusts, which war against t:12 Having your
conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas 
against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they
shaglorify God in the day of visitation.

2:13 Submit yourselves to every of man for the Lord’s sake:
whether it be to the king, as supreme; o governors, as unto
them that are sent by him for the punishment of end for the
praise of them that do well.

2:15 For so is the will of Goh well doing ye may put to
silence the ignorance of foolish men: 2:16 d not using your
liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servd.

2:17 Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the kiervants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to
the gootle, but also to the froward.

2:19 For this is thankworthy, if a man nce toward God
endure grief, suffering wrongfully.

2:20 For what glorf, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye
shall take it patiently? bu ye do well, and suffer for it,
ye take it patiently, this is acceptab.

2:21 For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also sufferedleaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps: 2:22
Who did nther was guile found in his mouth: 2:23 Who, when
he was reviled, revigain; when he suffered, he threatened
not; but committed himself to higeth righteously: 2:24 Who
his own self bare our sins in his own body ee, that we, being
dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whes ye were
healed.

2:25 For ye were as sheep going astray; but are nod unto the
Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.

3:1 Likewise, ye wives,bjection to your own husbands; that,
if any obey not the word, they alhout the word be won by the
conversation of the wives; 3:2 While they r chaste
conversation coupled with fear.

3:3 Whose adorning let it no outward adorning of plaiting the
hair, and of wearing of gold, or of  of apparel; 3:4 But let
it be the hidden man of the heart, in that wh corruptible,
even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is iht of
God of great price.

3:5 For after this manner in the old time twomen also, who
trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjectioir own
husbands: 3:6 Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any
amazemLikewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge,
giving nto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being
heirs together oce of life; that your prayers be not
hindered.

3:8 Finally, be ye allnd, having compassion one of another,
love as brethren, be pitiful, be: 3:9 Not rendering evil for
evil, or railing for railing: but contrarssing; knowing that
ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a 
3:10 For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain
hfrom evil, and his lips that they speak no guile: 3:11 Let
him eschew do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it.

3:12 For the eyes of the Lver the righteous, and his ears are
open unto their prayers: but the fe Lord is against them that
do evil.

3:13 And who is he that will harye be followers of that
which is good?  3:14 But and if ye suffer for ess’ sake,
happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither ed;
3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready alwaysan answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that
is inmeekness and fear: 3:16 Having a good conscience; that,
whereas they sof you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamed
that falsely accuse your rsation in Christ.

3:17 For it is better, if the will of God be so, tffer for
well doing, than for evil doing.

3:18 For Christ also hath oed for sins, the just for the
unjust, that he might bring us to God, bo death in the
flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: 3:19 By which also nd
preached unto the spirits in prison; 3:20 Which sometime were
disobn once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of
Noah, while the preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls
were saved by water.

3:2 figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not
the putting  filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good
conscience toward God,) surrection of Jesus Christ: 3:22 Who
is gone into heaven, and is on thand of God; angels and
authorities and powers being made subject unto Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm
yoursewise with the same mind: for he that hath suffered in
the flesh hath crom sin; 4:2 That he no longer should live the
rest of his time in thethe lusts of men, but to the will of
God.

4:3 For the time past of ou suffice us to have wrought the
will of the Gentiles, when we walked isness, lusts, excess
of wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable : 4:4
Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the s of riot, speaking evil of you: 4:5 Who shall give account to
him that to judge the quick and the dead.

4:6 For for this cause was the gospd also to them that are
dead, that they might be judged according to mlesh, but
live according to God in the spirit.

4:7 But the end of alls at hand: be ye therefore sober, and
watch unto prayer.

4:8 And abovgs have fervent charity among yourselves: for
charity shall cover the  of sins.

4:9 Use hospitality one to another without grudging.

4:10 an hath received the gift, even so minister the same
one to another, awards of the manifold grace of God.

4:11 If any man speak, let him spe oracles of God; if any man
minister, let him do it as of the abilitygiveth: that God
in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ,  praise
and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

4:12 Beloved, think it ge concerning the fiery trial which is
to try you, as though some stra happened unto you: 4:13 But
rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of sufferings; that,
when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad alsceeding
joy.

4:14 If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy a the
spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is en of, but on your part he is glorified.

4:15 But let none of you sufurderer, or as a thief, or as an
evildoer, or as a busybody in other mters.

4:16 Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamt him glorify God on this behalf.

4:17 For the time is come that judg begin at the house of
God: and if it first begin at us, what shall thf them that
obey not the gospel of God?  4:18 And if the righteous scaaved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?  4:19 Wherefore
lat suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping
of their souin well doing, as unto a faithful Creator.

5:1 The elders which are a exhort, who am also an elder, and
a witness of the sufferings of Chriso a partaker of the
glory that shall be revealed: 5:2 Feed the flock ich is among
you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, butly;
not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; 5:3 Neither as being lood’s heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.

5:4 And when the cerd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown
of glory that fadeth not awkewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all
of you t one to another, and be clothed with humility: for
God resisteth the giveth grace to the humble.

5:6 Humble yourselves therefore under thehand of God, that he
may exalt you in due time: 5:7 Casting all your cim; for he
careth for you.

5:8 Be sober, be vigilant; because your adhe devil, as a
roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devourm
resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are
d in your brethren that are in the world.

5:10 But the God of all grath called us unto his eternal
glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye hav a while, make you
perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you.

5:11 Toory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

5:12 By Silvanus, a faithfunto you, as I suppose, I have
written briefly, exhorting, and testifyis the true grace
of God wherein ye stand.

5:13 The church that is at elected together with you,
saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son.

5t ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace be with you
all that art Jesus. Amen.




The Second General Epistle of Peter


1:1 Simon Petnt and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them
that have obtained like pre with us through the
righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christe and peace
be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and o
Lord, 1:3 According as his divine power hath given unto us all thingsin unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him
that hath cal glory and virtue: 1:4 Whereby are given unto us
exceeding great and pomises: that by these ye might be
partakers of the divine nature, havi the corruption that is
in the world through lust.

1:5 And beside thill diligence, add to your faith virtue;
and to virtue knowledge; 1:6 Aedge temperance; and to
temperance patience; and to patience godlinessto godliness
brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.

1these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye
shall neithen nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord
Jesus Christ.

1:9 But heth these things is blind, and cannot see afar
off, and hath forgottens purged from his old sins.

1:10 Wherefore the rather, brethren, giveto make your
calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye er
fall: 1:11 For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundante everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

1:12 Wherl not be negligent to put you always in
remembrance of these things, tnow them, and be established
in the present truth.

1:13 Yea, I think as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir
you up by putting you in r; 1:14 Knowing that shortly I must
put off this my tabernacle, even as Jesus Christ hath shewed
me.

1:15 Moreover I will endeavour that ye e after my decease to
have these things always in remembrance.

1:16 F not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made
known unto you th coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were
eyewitnesses of his majesty he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there
came suc him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved
Son, in whom I am we.

1:18 And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were w the holy mount.

1:19 We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whero well
that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: 1:20 Knowing this
fino prophecy of the scripture is of any private
interpretation.

1:21 Fhecy came not in old time by the will of man: but
holy men of God spakre moved by the Holy Ghost.

2:1 But there were false prophets also ample, even as there
shall be false teachers among you, who privily shal damnable
heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring lves swift destruction.

2:2 And many shall follow their pernicious waason of whom the
way of truth shall be evil spoken of.

2:3 And throug
merchandise of you: whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not,
slumbereth not.

2:4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned, butell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved
unto j5 And spared not the old world, but saved Noah the
eighth person, a prighteousness, bringing in the flood upon
the world of the ungodly; 2:6 the cities of Sodom and
Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an ovking them an
ensample unto those that after should live ungodly; 2:7 Ad
just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked: 2:8 (Forteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed
his rightefrom day to day with their unlawful deeds;) 2:9 The
Lord knoweth how tthe godly out of temptations, and to
reserve the unjust unto the day o to be punished: 2:10 But
chiefly them that walk after the flesh in thncleanness, and
despise government. Presumptuous are they, selfwilled,aid to speak evil of dignities.

2:11 Whereas angels, which are greate and might, bring not
railing accusation against them before the Lord.t these, as natural brute beasts, made to be taken and
destroyed, spea things that they understand not; and
shall utterly perish in their owon; 2:13 And shall receive
the reward of unrighteousness, as they thatpleasure to riot
in the day time. Spots they are and blemishes, sportives
with their own deceivings while they feast with you; 2:14 Having ef adultery, and that cannot cease from sin; beguiling unstable
souls: hey have exercised with covetous practices; cursed
children: 2:15 Whicaken the right way, and are gone astray,
following the way of Balaam tBosor, who loved the wages of
unrighteousness; 2:16 But was rebuked foity: the dumb ass
speaking with man’s voice forbad the madness of th2:17 These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a
temom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever.

2:18 For when they speaelling words of vanity, they allure
through the lusts of the flesh, thwantonness, those that
were clean escaped from them who live in error.le they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants
of corr of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he
brought in bondage.

2:2fter they have escaped the pollutions of the world
through the knowled Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are
again entangled therein, and the latter end is worse with
them than the beginning.

2:21 For it had for them not to have known the way of
righteousness, than, after theyn it, to turn from the holy
commandment delivered unto them.

2:22 Butpened unto them according to the true proverb, The
dog is turned to hit again; and the sow that was washed to
her wallowing in the mire.

3:ond epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which
I stir up yoinds by way of remembrance: 3:2 That ye may be
mindful of the words whpoken before by the holy prophets,
and of the commandment of us the aphe Lord and Saviour: 3:3
Knowing this first, that there shall come in ays scoffers,
walking after their own lusts, 3:4 And saying, Where is e of
his coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things continuwere from the beginning of the creation.

3:5 For this they willingly ant of, that by the word of God
the heavens were of old, and the earthut of the water and
in the water: 3:6 Whereby the world that then was,flowed
with water, perished: 3:7 But the heavens and the earth, which  the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against
the day o and perdition of ungodly men.

3:8 But, beloved, be not ignorant of tng, that one day is
with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand ne day.

3:9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some menckness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any
should pt that all should come to repentance.

3:10 But the day of the Lord wi a thief in the night; in the
which the heavens shall pass away with ae, and the elements
shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and tat are
therein shall be burned up.

3:11 Seeing then that all these th be dissolved, what manner
of persons ought ye to be in all holy conve godliness, 3:12
Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day ofin the
heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shalh fervent heat?  3:13 Nevertheless we, according to his promise,
look eavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.

3:14 Wherefor seeing that ye look for such things, be
diligent that ye may be found peace, without spot, and
blameless.

3:15 And account that the longsuour Lord is salvation; even
as our beloved brother Paul also accordingsdom given unto
him hath written unto you; 3:16 As also in all his epiking
in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be
undech they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they
do also the othures, unto their own destruction.

3:17 Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ese things before, beware
lest ye also, being led away with the error cked, fall from
your own stedfastness.

3:18 But grow in grace, and inedge of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now an. Amen.




The First Epistle General of John


1:1 That which was fronning, which we have heard, which we
have seen with our eyes, which wepon, and our hands have
handled, of the Word of life; 1:2 (For the lifanifested, and we
have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you thfe,
which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;) 1:3 That we seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have
fellowshipand truly our fellowship is with the Father, and
with his Son Jesus Ch4 And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full.

1:5 is the message which we have heard of him, and declare
unto you, that ht, and in him is no darkness at all.

1:6 If we say that we have fell him, and walk in darkness,
we lie, and do not the truth: 1:7 But if wthe light, as he
is in the light, we have fellowship one with another,ood of
Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

1:8 If we say have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
is not in us.

1:9 Ifs our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our
sins, and to clefrom all unrighteousness.

1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we  liar, and his
word is not in us.

2:1 My little children, these thingnto you, that ye sin
not.

And if any man sin, we have an advocate witr, Jesus Christ
the righteous: 2:2 And he is the propitiation for our not
for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world.

2:3 And do know that we know him, if we keep his
commandments.

2:4 He that saw him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a
liar, and the truth is n

2:5 But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God
perereby know we that we are in him.

2:6 He that saith he abideth in himelf also so to walk,
even as he walked.

2:7 Brethren, I write no new  unto you, but an old
commandment which ye had from the beginning. Thedment is
the word which ye have heard from the beginning.

2:8 Again, andment I write unto you, which thing is true in
him and in you: becaukness is past, and the true light now
shineth.

2:9 He that saith he iight, and hateth his brother, is in
darkness even until now.

2:10 He h his brother abideth in the light, and there is
none occasion of stumn him.

2:11 But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath
bliyes.

2:12 I write unto you, little children, because your sins are fofor his name’s sake.

2:13 I write unto you, fathers, because ye hav that is from
the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye hme
the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have
ather.

2:14 I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known hfrom the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye
areand the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome
the wicked onLove not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If
any me world, the love of the Father is not in him.

2:16 For all that is id, the lust of the flesh, and the lust
of the eyes, and the pride of l of the Father, but is of
the world.

2:17 And the world passeth away,lust thereof: but he that
doeth the will of God abideth for ever.

2:1ildren, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that
antichrist shalen now are there many antichrists; whereby we
know that it is the last19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had
bee they would no doubt have continued with us: but they went
out, that t be made manifest that they were not all of us.

2:20 But ye have an u the Holy One, and ye know all things.

2:21 I have not written unto yye know not the truth, but
because ye know it, and that no lie is of t2:22 Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He ist, that denieth the Father and the Son.

2:23 Whosoever denieth the So hath not the Father: he that
acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father alet that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from the
beginninghich ye have heard from the beginning shall remain
in you, ye also shae in the Son, and in the Father.

2:25 And this is the promise that hesed us, even eternal
life.

2:26 These things have I written unto you  them that seduce
you.

2:27 But the anointing which ye have received th in you,
and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anocheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as
it hyou, ye shall abide in him.

2:28 And now, little children, abide in hwhen he shall
appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed befors
coming.

2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every on
doeth righteousness is born of him.

3:1 Behold, what manner of love hath bestowed upon us, that
we should be called the sons of God: thererld knoweth us
not, because it knew him not.

3:2 Beloved, now are we  God, and it doth not yet appear
what we shall be: but we know that, wll appear, we shall be
like him; for we shall see him as he is.

3:3 Aan that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even
as he is pure.

er committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is
the transgres law.

3:5 And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; ais no sin.

3:6 Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinnetseen him, neither known him.

3:7 Little children, let no man deceive t doeth
righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.

3:8 He teth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from
the beginning. Forse the Son of God was manifested, that he
might destroy the works of t3:9 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed
remaine and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.

3:10 In this the childare manifest, and the children of the
devil: whosoever doeth not right not of God, neither he
that loveth not his brother.

3:11 For this issage that ye heard from the beginning, that we
should love one another as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother.
And wheref him? Because his own works were evil, and his
brother’s righteous.
el not, my brethren, if the world hate you.

3:14 We know that we havem death unto life, because we love
the brethren. He that loveth not hiabideth in death.

3:15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: anthat no
murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.

3:16 Hereby perceiove of God, because he laid down his life
for us: and we ought to lay lives for the brethren.

3:17 But whoso hath this world’s good, and brother have
need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, th
the love of God in him?  3:18 My little children, let us not love ither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.

3:19 And hereby we know tha the truth, and shall assure our
hearts before him.

3:20 For if our hmn us, God is greater than our heart, and
knoweth all things.

3:21 Beur heart condemn us not, then have we confidence
toward God.

3:22 Ander we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his
commandments, and dogs that are pleasing in his sight.

3:23 And this is his commandment, e should believe on the name
of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one anoe gave us
commandment.

3:24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelm, and he in
him.

And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Sphe hath
given us.

4:1 Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the hether
they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into .

4:2 Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth
Christ is come in the flesh is of God: 4:3 And every spirit
that confehat Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of
God: and this is that ntichrist, whereof ye have heard that
it should come; and even now alr in the world.

4:4 Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome use
greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.

4:5 T the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the
world heareth te are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of
God heus. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit
of error.

4:7 et us love one another: for love is of God; and every
one that loveth  God, and knoweth God.

4:8 He that loveth not knoweth not God; for Go

4:9 In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that G his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through
him.ein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and
sent his the propitiation for our sins.

4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we love one another.

4:12 No man hath seen God at any time. If we love oher, God
dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.

4:13 Herebyhat we dwell in him, and he in us, because he
hath given us of his Spind we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to
be the the world.

4:15 Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God,eth in him, and he in God.

4:16 And we have known and believed the lo hath to us. God
is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in Godn him.

4:17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldnesy of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.

4:18 There  in love; but perfect love casteth out fear:
because fear hath tormenteareth is not made perfect in
love.

4:19 We love him, because he firs

4:20 If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar:at loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love
God whom  seen?  4:21 And this commandment have we from
him, That he who lovethe his brother also.

5:1 Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ  God: and
every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that isof him.

5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when weand keep his commandments.

5:3 For this is the love of God, that we kmandments: and
his commandments are not grievous.

5:4 For whatsoever  God overcometh the world: and this is
the victory that overcometh then our faith.

5:5 Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that bel
Jesus is the Son of God?  5:6 This is he that came by water and bloodsus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it
is the S beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.

5:7 For there are thre record in heaven, the Father, the
Word, and the Holy Ghost: and thesene.

5:8 And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, aer, and the blood: and these three agree in one.

5:9 If we receive thf men, the witness of God is greater:
for this is the witness of God wh testified of his Son.

5:10 He that believeth on the Son of God haths in himself:
he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because h
not the record that God gave of his Son.

5:11 And this is the record hath given to us eternal life,
and this life is in his Son.

5:12 Heh the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of
God hath not lifese things have I written unto you that believe on the name of
the Son t ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that
ye may believe on ththe Son of God.

5:14 And this is the confidence that we have in him,  ask
any thing according to his will, he heareth us: 5:15 And if we knhear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions
that wen see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he
shall ask, andhat sin not unto
death. There is a sin unto death: I do not say that hor
it.

5:17 All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto dw that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that is
begotten oeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not.

5:19 And we know t of God, and the whole world lieth in
wickedness.

5:20 And we know th of God is come, and hath given us an
understanding, that we may know  true, and we are in him
that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. Ttrue God, and
eternal life.

5:21 Little children, keep yourselves froen.




The Second Epistle General of John


1:1 The elder unto the elnd her children, whom I love in
the truth; and not I only, but also alhat have known the
truth; 1:2 For the truth’s sake, which dwelleth ishall be
with us for ever.

1:3 Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, f Father, and from
the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in true.

1:4 I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truave received a commandment from the Father.

1:5 And now I beseech theot as though I wrote a new
commandment unto thee, but that which we habeginning, that
we love one another.

1:6 And this is love, that we wais commandments. This is the
commandment, That, as ye have heard from ing, ye should walk
in it.

1:7 For many deceivers are entered into tho confess not
that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceivhrist.

1:8 Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which weught, but that we receive a full reward.

1:9 Whosoever transgresseth,eth not in the doctrine of
Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the of Christ, he
hath both the Father and the Son.

1:10 If there come u, and bring not this doctrine, receive
him not into your house, neithGod speed: 1:11 For he that
biddeth him God speed is partaker of his e
1:12 Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with
papk: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face,
that our joy .

1:13 The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.




The ThiGeneral of John


1:1 The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I lovtruth.

1:2 Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper ealth, even as thy soul prospereth.

1:3 For I rejoiced greatly, when ren came and testified of
the truth that is in thee, even as thou walktruth.

1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk i

1:5 Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the
bretto strangers; 1:6 Which have borne witness of thy
charity before the chou bring forward on their journey
after a godly sort, thou shalt do wcause that for his
name’s sake they went forth, taking nothing of th

1:8 We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpetruth.

1:9 I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to havinence among them, receiveth us not.

1:10 Wherefore, if I come, I wilhis deeds which he doeth,
prating against us with malicious words: andnt therewith,
neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbidthat
would, and casteth them out of the church.

1:11 Beloved, follow  which is evil, but that which is good.
He that doeth good is of God:  doeth evil hath not seen
God.

1:12 Demetrius hath good report of allof the truth itself:
yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that ous true.

1:13 I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and unto thee: 1:14 But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall
speface. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet
the friends by he General Epistle of Jude


1:1 Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, anf James, to them
that are sanctified by God the Father, and preserved hrist,
and called: 1:2 Mercy unto you, and peace, and love, be multiplloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common
salvaas needful for me to write unto you, and exhort you
that ye should eartend for the faith which was once
delivered unto the saints.

1:4 For certain men crept in unawares, who were before of
old ordained to thisn, ungodly men, turning the grace of
our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our
Lord Jesus Christ.

1:5 I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this,
how that the Ling saved the people out of the land of Egypt,
afterward destroyed theieved not.

1:6 And the angels which kept not their first estate, but 
own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darknessudgment of the great day.

1:7 Even as Sodom and Gomorrha, and the cit them in like
manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and goingange
flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of
ee.

1:8 Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise
and speak evil of dignities.

1:9 Yet Michael the archangel, when conth the devil he
disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring againailing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee.

1:10 But these spe those things which they know not: but
what they know naturally, as br in those things they
corrupt themselves.

1:11 Woe unto them! for thene in the way of Cain, and ran
greedily after the error of Balaam for  perished in the
gainsaying of Core.

1:12 These are spots in your fearity, when they feast with
you, feeding themselves without fear: cloudwithout water,
carried about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth, wit,
twice dead, plucked up by the roots; 1:13 Raging waves of the sea,
t their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the
blackness s for ever.

1:14 And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied ofying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his saints, 1:15
Tjudgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly
among them of ngodly deeds which they have ungodly
committed, and of all their hard hich ungodly sinners have
spoken against him.

1:16 These are murmurerers, walking after their own lusts;
and their mouth speaketh great swe, having men’s persons in
admiration because of advantage.

1:17 Butd, remember ye the words which were spoken before of
the apostles of ous Christ; 1:18 How that they told you
there should be mockers in the  who should walk after their
own ungodly lusts.

1:19 These be they whthemselves, sensual, having not the
Spirit.

1:20 But ye, beloved, buiourselves on your most holy faith,
praying in the Holy Ghost, 1:21 Keeves in the love of God,
looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christal life.

1:22 And of some have compassion, making a difference: 1:23 
save with fear, pulling them out of the fire; hating even the garment the flesh.

1:24 Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, esent you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding
jothe only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty,
dominion and powe now and ever. Amen.




The Revelation of Saint John the Devine


1:1tion of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shew
unto his servan which must shortly come to pass; and he sent
and signified it by his his servant John: 1:2 Who bare
record of the word of God, and of the t Jesus Christ, and
of all things that he saw.

1:3 Blessed is he that nd they that hear the words of this
prophecy, and keep those things whitten therein: for the
time is at hand.

1:4 John to the seven churchee in Asia: Grace be unto you,
and peace, from him which is, and which ich is to come; and
from the seven Spirits which are before his thronerom Jesus
Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten d, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved
us, as from our sins in his own blood, 1:6 And hath made us
kings and pries and his Father; to him be glory and
dominion for ever and ever. Amen.d, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and
they also wd him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail
because of him. Even s:8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the
Lord, which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.

1:9 I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation,
and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that
is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus
Christ.

1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and heard behind me a
great voice, as of a trumpet, 1:11 Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the
first and the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book, and send it
unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto
Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and
unto Philadelphia, and odicea.

1:12 And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And be, I saw seven golden candlesticks; 1:13 And in the midst of the
seven ks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a
garment down to the fort about the paps with a golden
girdle.

1:14 His head and his hairs wlike wool, as white as snow;
and his eyes were as a flame of fire; 1:1feet like unto fine
brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voisound of
many waters.

1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars: f his mouth
went a sharp twoedged sword: and his countenance was as thth in his strength.

1:17 And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dehe laid his
right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the fir
last: 1:18 I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alivemore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.

1:19 Write the ththou hast seen, and the things which are,
and the things which shall b; 1:20 The mystery of the seven
stars which thou sawest in my right hae seven golden
candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the sevs:
and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churchesnto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saith
he ththe seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the
midst of the sevcandlesticks; 2:2 I know thy works, and thy
labour, and thy patience, hou canst not bear them which are
evil: and thou hast tried them whichare apostles, and are
not, and hast found them liars: 2:3 And hast bort patience,
and for my name’s sake hast laboured, and hast not faintvertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left
thy fi

2:5 Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and st works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will
remove thy c out of his place, except thou repent.

2:6 But this thou hast, that tst the deeds of the
Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.

2:7 He that hathet him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches; To him that overcl I give to eat of the tree of
life, which is in the midst of the parad.

2:8 And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These thingsfirst and the last, which was dead, and is alive; 2:9 I know
thy workslation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I
know the blasphemy of tsay they are Jews, and are not, but
are the synagogue of Satan.

2:10 of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the
devil shall cast  into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye
shall have tribulation ten hou faithful unto death, and I
will give thee a crown of life.

2:11 Hh an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches; He thameth shall not be hurt of the second death.

2:12 And to the angel of  in Pergamos write; These things
saith he which hath the sharp sword wges; 2:13 I know thy
works, and where thou dwellest, even where Satanis: and thou
holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even days
wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you,  dwelleth.

2:14 But I have a few things against thee, because thou ha
them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a
stu before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed
unto idols, amit fornication.

2:15 So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine olaitanes, which thing I hate.

2:16 Repent; or else I will come unto ty, and will fight
against them with the sword of my mouth.

2:17 He thear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churches; To him thath will I give to eat of the hidden
manna, and will give him a white st the stone a new name
written, which no man knoweth saving he that rec

2:18 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These thinge Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and
his feefine brass; 2:19 I know thy works, and charity, and
service, and faithatience, and thy works; and the last to
be more than the first.

2:20 ding I have a few things against thee, because thou
sufferest that wom which calleth herself a prophetess, to
teach and to seduce my servantt fornication, and to eat
things sacrificed unto idols.

2:21 And I gace to repent of her fornication; and she
repented not.

2:22 Behold, Ier into a bed, and them that commit adultery
with her into great tribuxcept they repent of their deeds.

2:23 And I will kill her children whe churches
shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearwill give unto every one of you according to your works.

2:24 But unty, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as
have not this doctrine, ahave not known the depths of Satan,
as they speak; I will put upon you burden.

2:25 But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.

e that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him
will I giover the nations: 2:27 And he shall rule them with a
rod of iron; as t of a potter shall they be broken to
shivers: even as I received of my2:28 And I will give him the morning star.

2:29 He that hath an ear, ar what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:1 And unto the angel ofch in Sardis write; These things
saith he that hath the seven Spirits  the seven stars; I
know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou lirt dead.

3:2 Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, tha to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.

3:3 Rememe how thou hast received and heard, and hold
fast, and repent. If ther shalt not watch, I will come on
thee as a thief, and thou shalt not kur I will come upon
thee.

3:4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis whnot defiled their
garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for worthy.

3:5 He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white ra I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will
confe before my Father, and before his angels.

3:6 He that hath an ear, l what the Spirit saith unto the
churches.

3:7 And to the angel of the Philadelphia write; These things
saith he that is holy, he that is trhath the key of David,
he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutto man
openeth; 3:8 I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and
hast kepand hast not denied my name.

3:9 Behold, I will make them of the synaatan, which say they
are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will to come
and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thecause thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep
thee fr of temptation, which shall come upon all the world,
to try them thatn the earth.

3:11 Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou ho
man take thy crown.

3:12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar ile of my God,
and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him t my
God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, wh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him my
new nam that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the
churched unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; These
things smen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of
the creation of G know thy works, that thou art neither cold
nor hot: I would thou wertt.

3:16 So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot,  thee out of my mouth.

3:17 Because thou sayest, I am rich, and incregoods, and
have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretcheerable, and poor, and blind, and naked: 3:18 I counsel thee to buy
of ried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white
raiment, that thbe clothed, and that the shame of thy
nakedness do not appear; and anoyes with eyesalve, that
thou mayest see.

3:19 As many as I love, I rehasten: be zealous therefore,
and repent.

3:20 Behold, I stand at theknock: if any man hear my voice,
and open the door, I will come in to ill sup with him, and
he with me.

3:21 To him that overcometh will I it with me in my throne,
even as I also overcame, and am set down withr in his throne.

3:22 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirunto the
churches.

4:1 After this I looked, and, behold, a door was oeaven: and
the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet tth
me; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which m the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set
in heaven, and one sat on td he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine
stone: and w round about the throne, in sight like
unto an emerald.

4:4 And roune throne were four and twenty seats: and upon
the seats I saw four anders sitting, clothed in white
raiment; and they had on their heads crold.

4:5 And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings anand there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne,
which arn Spirits of God.

4:6 And before the throne there was a sea of glass crystal:
and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, wbeasts full of eyes before and behind.

4:7 And the first beast was li and the second beast like a
calf, and the third beast had a face as athe fourth beast
was like a flying eagle.

4:8 And the four beasts hadhem six wings about him; and they
were full of eyes within: and they ray and night, saying,
Holy, holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, nd is to
come.

4:9 And when those beasts give glory and honour and th that
sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever, 4:10 The four aelders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship
him ther and ever, and cast their crowns before the
throne, saying, 4:11 Thothy, O Lord, to receive glory and
honour and power: for thou hast creaings, and for thy
pleasure they are and were created.

5:1 And I saw iht hand of him that sat on the throne a book
written within and on the sealed with seven seals.

5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming wi voice, Who is
worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof no
man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to ok, neither to look thereon.

5:4 And I wept much, because no man was hy to open and to
read the book, neither to look thereon.

5:5 And oneders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of
the tribe of Juda, t David, hath prevailed to open the book,
and to loose the seven seals 5:6 And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four
 in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been
slain, having and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits
of God sent forth into al
5:7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that
s throne.

5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and foury elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them
harps, anials full of odours, which are the prayers of
saints.

5:9 And they suong, saying, Thou art worthy to take the
book, and to open the seals t thou wast slain, and hast
redeemed us to God by thy blood out of ever and tongue, and
people, and nation; 5:10 And hast made us unto our God
priests: and we shall reign on the earth.

5:11 And I beheld, and I oice of many angels round about
the throne and the beasts and the elde number of them was
ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of  5:12
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to rr, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory,
and bl5:13 And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and
undeh, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them,
heard I sayin and honour, and glory, and power, be unto
him that sitteth upon the t unto the Lamb for ever and ever.

5:14 And the four beasts said, Amenfour and twenty elders
fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever.

6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard,e the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and
see.

 saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a
bow; and s given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and
to conquer.

6:3 Ahe had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast
say, Come and nd there went out another horse that was red: and power was given
to ht thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they
should kill one and there was given unto him a great sword.

6:5 And when he had opened seal, I heard the third beast
say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lhorse; and he that sat
on him had a pair of balances in his hand.

6:6rd a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure
of wheat forand three measures of barley for a penny; and
see thou hurt not the oiwine.

6:7 And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice oh beast say, Come and see.

6:8 And I looked, and behold a pale horse:name that sat on
him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power unto
them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and w, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.

6:9 And when he hthe fifth seal, I saw under the altar the
souls of them that were slaiord of God, and for the
testimony which they held: 6:10 And they criedd voice,
saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge  our blood on them that dwell on the earth?  6:11 And white
robes wereo every one of them; and it was said unto them,
that they should rest ittle season, until their
fellowservants also and their brethren, thatkilled as they
were, should be fulfilled.

6:12 And I beheld when he hthe sixth seal, and, lo, there
was a great earthquake; and the sun becas sackcloth of hair,
and the moon became as blood; 6:13 And the stars fell unto
the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, whhaken of a mighty wind.

6:14 And the heaven departed as a scroll whentogether;
and every mountain and island were moved out of their placesd the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men,
and thetains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and
every free man, hid lves in the dens and in the rocks of the
mountains; 6:16 And said to tns and rocks, Fall on us, and
hide us from the face of him that sittethrone, and from the
wrath of the Lamb: 6:17 For the great day of his wme; and
who shall be able to stand?  7:1 And after these things I saw  standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four
winds of that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on
the sea, nor on any And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal
of tGod: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels,
to whom it wasurt the earth and the sea, 7:3 Saying, Hurt
not the earth, neither thehe trees, till we have sealed the
servants of our God in their forehea I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were
sealed and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the
children of Israelhe tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of
Reuben wtwelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed
twelve thousand.

7:6be of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of
Nephthalim werwelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were
sealed twelve thousand.
 tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe
of Levi werwelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were
sealed twelve thousand.
 tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe
of Joseph d twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were
sealed twelve thousaner this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man
could numbeations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues,
stood before the thronee the Lamb, clothed with white
robes, and palms in their hands; 7:10 Ath a loud voice,
saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the td unto
the Lamb.

7:11 And all the angels stood round about the thronet the
elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their orshipped God, 7:12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and
wisdom, anding, and honour, and power, and might, be unto
our God for ever and ev:13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these
whied in white robes? and whence came they?  7:14 And I
said unto him, Siowest. And he said to me, These are they
which came out of great tribu have washed their robes, and
made them white in the blood of the Lambrefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day
and night ple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell
among them.

7:16 Tunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall
the sun light onany heat.

7:17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall,
and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall
wl tears from their eyes.

8:1 And when he had opened the seventh seal,n
heaven about the space of half an hour.

8:2 And I saw the seven angstood before God; and to them
were given seven trumpets.

8:3 And anotcame and stood at the altar, having a golden
censer; and there was givm much incense, that he should
offer it with the prayers of all saintsolden altar which
was before the throne.

8:4 And the smoke of the inch came with the prayers of the
saints, ascended up before God out of ts hand.

8:5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and
thunderings, ngs, and an earthquake.

8:6 And the seven angels which had the seven repared
themselves to sound.

8:7 The first angel sounded, and there fil and fire mingled
with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: andd part of
trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.

8:8 And angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain
burning with fire wae sea: and the third part of the sea
became blood; 8:9 And the third p creatures which were in
the sea, and had life, died; and the third paships were
destroyed.

8:10 And the third angel sounded, and there felstar from
heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the thirivers, and upon the fountains of waters; 8:11 And the name of the
star Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became
wormwood; and many f the waters, because they were made
bitter.

8:12 And the fourth ange and the third part of the sun was
smitten, and the third part of the he third part of the
stars; so as the third part of them was darkened,ay shone
not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.

8:13 And and heard an angel flying through the midst of
heaven, saying with a , Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of
the earth by reason of the otherthe trumpet of the three
angels, which are yet to sound!  9:1 And the  sounded, and
I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to himthe
key of the bottomless pit.

9:2 And he opened the bottomless pit; arose a smoke out of
the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and thehe air were
darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.

9:3 And there the smoke locusts upon the earth: and unto
them was given power, as ts of the earth have power.

9:4 And it was commanded them that they shrt the grass of
the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; hose
men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.

9:5 And twas given that they should not kill them, but that
they should be tormmonths: and their torment was as the
torment of a scorpion, when he stman.

9:6 And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find ihall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.

9:7 And the shapecusts were like unto horses prepared unto
battle; and on their heads were crowns like gold, and their
faces were as the faces of men.

9:8 A hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as
the teeth of lions they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and
the soundings was as the sound of chariots of many horses
running to battle.

9y had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in
their tails:ower was to hurt men five months.

9:11 And they had a king over them,the angel of the
bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abin the
Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.

9:12 One woe is past; andere come two woes more hereafter.

9:13 And the sixth angel sounded, a a voice from the four
horns of the golden altar which is before God, ng to the
sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels whid in the great river Euphrates.

9:15 And the four angels were loosed, prepared for an hour,
and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slaypart of men.

9:16 And the number of the army of the horsemen were twohousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.

9:17 And thus I saws in the vision, and them that sat on
them, having breastplates of fircinth, and brimstone: and
the heads of the horses were as the heads of out of their
mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.

9:18 By thes the third part of men killed, by the fire, and
by the smoke, and by one, which issued out of their mouths.

9:19 For their power is in thed in their tails: for their
tails were like unto serpents, and had heah them they do
hurt.

9:20 And the rest of the men which were not kille plagues
yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they shouhip devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,
and oich neither can see, nor hear, nor walk: 9:21 Neither
repented they ofrs, nor of their sorceries, nor of their
fornication, nor of their theAnd I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed
with a ca rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it
were the sun, and s pillars of fire: 10:2 And he had in his
hand a little book open: ands right foot upon the sea, and
his left foot on the earth, 10:3 And cr loud voice, as when
a lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thuned their
voices.

10:4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their vas about
to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seathings which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.

10:5 And which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth
lifted up his hand  10:6 And sware by him that liveth for
ever and ever, who created heave things that therein are,
and the earth, and the things that therein a, and the
things which are therein, that there should be time no longt in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin
the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared
to his servaophets.

10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me agd, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the
angel deth upon the sea and upon the earth.

10:9 And I went unto the angel,to him, Give me the little
book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eatnd it shall make
thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet 10:10 And I took the little book out of the angel’s hand, and ate itt was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten
it, my beter.

10:11 And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many
and nations, and tongues, and kings.

11:1 And there was given me a rento a rod: and the angel
stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple o the altar, and
them that worship therein.

11:2 But the court which ihe temple leave out, and measure
it not; for it is given unto the Gentthe holy city shall
they tread under foot forty and two months.

11:3  give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall
prophesy a thousand d and threescore days, clothed in
sackcloth.

11:4 These are the two o, and the two candlesticks standing
before the God of the earth.

11:5y man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their
mouth, and devouretemies: and if any man will hurt them, he
must in this manner be killedse have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of
their pr have power over waters to turn them to blood, and
to smite the earth gues, as often as they will.

11:7 And when they shall have finished tmony, the beast that
ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make wathem, and
shall overcome them, and kill them.

11:8 And their dead bodlie in the street of the great city,
which spiritually is called Sodom where also our Lord was
crucified.

11:9 And they of the people and kd tongues and nations shall
see their dead bodies three days and an hall not suffer
their dead bodies to be put in graves.

11:10 And they tupon the earth shall rejoice over them, and
make merry, and shall sendto another; because these two
prophets tormented them that dwelt on th1:11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God
entehem, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell
upon them whi.

11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Coer. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their
enemies behel1:13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth
parity fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven
thousand: and  were affrighted, and gave glory to the God
of heaven.

11:14 The secopast; and, behold, the third woe cometh
quickly.

11:15 And the seventded; and there were great voices in
heaven, saying, The kingdoms of the become the kingdoms of
our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reithe four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their
seats, fell 1:17 Saying, We
give thee thanks, O LORD God Almighty, which art, and  art to
come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hasions were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time
of the dead, thatd be judged, and that thou shouldest give
reward unto thy servants theand to the saints, and them
that fear thy name, small and great; and sestroy them which
destroy the earth.

11:19 And the temple of God was heaven, and there was seen
in his temple the ark of his testament: and lightnings, and
voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great:1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with
td the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of
twelve stars: he being with child cried, travailing in
birth, and pained to be deliv:3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great
redving seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon
his heads.

12:4il drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did
cast them to thnd the dragon stood before the woman which
was ready to be delivered, r child as soon as it was
born.

12:5 And she brought forth a man chilas to rule all nations
with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up and to his
throne.

12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, wherh a place
prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand red and threescore days.

12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael ans fought
against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, 12:ailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.

12:9 And dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the
Devil, and Satan, wveth the whole world: he was cast out
into the earth, and his angels wt with him.

12:10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is cion, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of
his Chuser of our brethren is cast down, which
accused them before our God dht.

12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the heir testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.

12:12 rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to
the inhabiters th and of the sea! for the devil is come down
unto you, having great wse he knoweth that he hath but a
short time.

12:13 And when the drago he was cast unto the earth, he
persecuted the woman which brought forchild.

12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, ight fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished
f and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.

12:15 And nt cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the
woman, that he miger to be carried away of the flood.

12:16 And the earth helped the woe earth opened her mouth,
and swallowed up the flood which the dragon  his mouth.

12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went t
with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, andtestimony of Jesus Christ.

13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, beast rise up out
of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and urns ten
crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.

13:2 And thhich I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet
were as the feet of ahis mouth as the mouth of a lion: and
the dragon gave him his power, a, and great authority.

13:3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wouath; and his
deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after

13:4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast:worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who
is able  with him?  13:5 And there was given unto him a
mouth speaking great tlasphemies; and power was given unto
him to continue forty and two mon And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme
his na tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.

13:7 And it was given untke war with the saints, and to
overcome them: and power was given him ndreds, and tongues,
and nations.

13:8 And all that dwell upon the eaworship him, whose names
are not written in the book of life of the Laom the
foundation of the world.

13:9 If any man have an ear, let him 0 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that
kille sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the
patience and the fasaints.

13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth;  two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.

13:12 And he exercie power of the first beast before him,
and causeth the earth and them  therein to worship the
first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.

1 doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down
from heaven on in the sight of men, 13:14 And deceiveth them
that dwell on the earth s of those miracles which he had
power to do in the sight of the beastaying to them that dwell on
the earth, that they should make an image st, which had the
wound by a sword, and did live.

13:15 And he had pove life unto the image of the beast, that
the image of the beast shoulspeak, and cause that as many as
would not worship the image of the be be killed.

13:16 And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and 
and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their
foreheadnd that no man might buy or sell, save he that had
the mark, or the nahe number of his name.

13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath undersing count the number
of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and  is Six
hundred threescore and six.

14:1 And I looked, and, lo, a Lam the mount Sion, and with
him an hundred forty and four thousand, haviher’s name
written in their foreheads.

14:2 And I heard a voice froas the voice of many waters, and
as the voice of a great thunder: and e voice of harpers
harping with their harps: 14:3 And they sung as it  song
before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: acould learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,
whieemed from the earth.

14:4 These are they which were not defiled with they are
virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God andmb.

14:5 And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without ore the throne of God.

14:6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst  having the
everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the eto
every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 14:7 Saying withice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his
judgment is  worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the
sea, and the fountairs.

14:8 And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen,n, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the
wine of  of her fornication.

14:9 And the third angel followed them, saying wd voice, If
any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his ms
forehead, or in his hand, 14:10 The same shall drink of the wine of
of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of
his indignhe shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in
the presence of the h, and in the presence of the Lamb:
14:11 And the smoke of their tormen up for ever and ever:
and they have no rest day nor night, who worshi and his
image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.

14:12 H patience of the saints: here are they that keep the
commandments of G faith of Jesus.

14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto meBlessed
are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saitht, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do
follow th And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one
sat lihe Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and
in his hand a sh.

14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud
m that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap:
for the time r thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is
ripe.

14:16 And he thhe cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth;
and the earth was reaped.
nd another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he
also harp sickle.

14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which hadr
fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle,
sast in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the
vine of the earer grapes are fully ripe.

14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle inth, and gathered
the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winthe
wrath of God.

14:20 And the winepress was trodden without the citood came
out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the spaousand and six hundred furlongs.

15:1 And I saw another sign in heavet and marvellous, seven
angels having the seven last plagues; for in tled up the
wrath of God.

15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass minfire: and them
that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over hind
over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea ofaving the harps of God.

15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the serv, and the song
of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works
Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.

15:4 Who fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou
only art holy: for a shall come and worship before thee; for
thy judgments are made manifeAnd after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the
tabernacle of ony in heaven was opened: 15:6 And the seven
angels came out of the tee seven plagues, clothed in
pure and white linen, and having their brewith golden
girdles.

15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the se seven
golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and 8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and
from; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the
seven plaguesen angels were fulfilled.

16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the tng to the seven
angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrupon
the earth.

16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon; and
there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had thof the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.

16:3 And the el poured out his vial upon the sea; and it
became as the blood of a dnd every living soul died in the
sea.

16:4 And the third angel pouredial upon the rivers and
fountains of waters; and they became blood.

1eard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O
Lord, which art, and shalt be, because thou hast judged
thus.

16:6 For they have shd of saints and prophets, and thou
hast given them blood to drink; forworthy.

16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord y, true and righteous are thy judgments.

16:8 And the fourth angel pos vial upon the sun; and power
was given unto him to scorch men with f And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of
Godth power over these plagues: and they repented not to
give him glory.
 the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the
beast; and h was full of darkness; and they gnawed their
tongues for pain, 16:11 Aemed the God of heaven because of
their pains and their sores, and repf their deeds.

16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon ther
Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the
ke east might be prepared.

16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like  out of the mouth
of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, ane mouth
of the false prophet.

16:14 For they are the spirits of devil miracles, which go
forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.

16:15 Bome as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and
keepeth his garments,alk naked, and they see his shame.

16:16 And he gathered them togetheace called in the Hebrew
tongue Armageddon.

16:17 And the seventh angut his vial into the air; and
there came a great voice out of the tempen, from the throne,
saying, It is done.

16:18 And there were voices,ers, and lightnings; and there
was a great earthquake, such as was notwere upon the earth,
so mighty an earthquake, and so great.

16:19 Andcity was divided into three parts, and the cities
of the nations fell:t Babylon came in remembrance before God,
to give unto her the cup of  of the fierceness of his wrath.

16:20 And every island fled away, anntains were not found.

16:21 And there fell upon men a great hail out, every stone
about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God beche
plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.

17ere came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials,
and talkedsaying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee
the judgment of there that sitteth upon many waters: 17:2
With whom the kings of the eartmmitted fornication, and the
inhabitants of the earth have been made dthe wine of her
fornication.

17:3 So he carried me away in the spirit wilderness: and I
saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, fullf
blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.

17:4 And the woman wasn purple and scarlet colour, and
decked with gold and precious stones s, having a golden cup
in her hand full of abominations and filthinessnication:
17:5 And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYEAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.

17:6 And I an drunken with the blood of the saints, and
with the blood of the marsus: and when I saw her, I wondered
with great admiration.

17:7 And taid unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will
tell thee the mysteryan, and of the beast that carrieth
her, which hath the seven heads and7:8 The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out
omless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on
the earth sha whose names were not written in the book of
life from the foundation d, when they behold the beast that
was, and is not, and yet is.

17:9  the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven
mountains, on woman sitteth.

17:10 And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and o the
other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a sho
17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and
seven, and goeth into perdition.

17:12 And the ten horns which thou sen kings, which have
received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as our with
the beast.

17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their prength
unto the beast.

17:14 These shall make war with the Lamb, and hall overcome
them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and the
with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.

17:15 And he saith uhe waters which thou sawest, where the
whore sitteth, are peoples, ands, and nations, and tongues.

17:16 And the ten horns which thou sawesbeast, these shall
hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and nakhall eat
her flesh, and burn her with fire.

17:17 For God hath put inrts to fulfil his will, and to
agree, and give their kingdom unto the il the words of God
shall be fulfilled.

17:18 And the woman which thos that great city, which
reigneth over the kings of the earth.

18:1 Ase things I saw another angel come down from heaven,
having great powe earth was lightened with his glory.

18:2 And he cried mightily with oice, saying, Babylon the
great is fallen, is fallen, and is become thon of devils,
and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every u
hateful bird.

18:3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wraornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication
withthe merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the
abundance of her.

18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of here, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive
not of he

18:5 For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered
ties.

18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her dcording to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her
douHow much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so
much tosorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a
queen, and am no shall see no sorrow.

18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one daynd mourning,
and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: fo
the Lord God who judgeth her.

18:9 And the kings of the earth, who hted fornication and
lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and  her, when
they shall see the smoke of her burning, 18:10 Standing afathe fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon,
tur is thy judgment come.

18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall wheir merchandise any more: 18:12 The merchandise of
gold, and silver, us stones, and of pearls, and fine linen,
and purple, and silk, and scnd all manner
vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most preciou of
brass, and iron, and marble, 18:13 And cinnamon, and odours, and
o and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and
wheat, and b sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves,
and souls of men.

18:14 fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from
thee, and all thiwere dainty and goodly are departed from
thee, and thou shalt find theat all.

18:15 The merchants of these things, which were made rich by stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,
18:16g, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in fine
linen, and purscarlet, and decked with gold, and precious
stones, and pearls!  18:17 hour so great riches is come to
nought. And every shipmaster, and allny in ships, and
sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, cried
when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is liis great city!  18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried,
weng, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein were
made rich all thahips in the sea by reason of her costliness!
for in one hour is she mae.

18:20 Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and
prop God hath avenged you on her.

18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stoneat millstone, and
cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shgreat city
Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.
 the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and
trumpeters, seard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman,
of whatsoever craft he be found any more in thee; and the
sound of a millstone shall be heardt all in thee; 18:23 And
the light of a candle shall shine no more at e; and the
voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no n thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy
e all nations deceived.

18:24 And in her was found the blood of proph saints, and
of all that were slain upon the earth.

19:1 And after th I heard a great voice of much people in
heaven, saying, Alleluia; Sal glory, and honour, and power,
unto the Lord our God: 19:2 For true ans are his judgments:
for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrth with
her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants a

19:3 And again they said, Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever an:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and
wood that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.

19:5 And a voice c the throne, saying, Praise our God, all
ye his servants, and ye that oth small and great.

19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a greate, and as the
voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thundera: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.

19:7 Let us be glad and rejothe Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.

19:8 And to hld be arrayed in fine linen,
clean and white: for the fine linen is thness of saints.

19:9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they whlled
unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, Theseue sayings of God.

19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him. And ho me, See
thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren he testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the
 prophecy.

19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; asat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he
dot make war.

19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head wewns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.

19:was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name
is called Theod.

19:14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

19:15 And out of his mouth gp sword, that with it he should
smite the nations: and he shall rule t rod of iron: and he
treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrathty God.

19:16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name wriOF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.

19:17 And I saw an angel standing in thehe cried with a loud
voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the mien, Come
and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great GThat ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and themighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on
them, andof all men, both free and bond, both small and
great.

19:19 And I saw, and the kings of the earth, and their
armies, gathered together to minst him that sat on the
horse, and against his army.

19:20 And the btaken, and with him the false prophet that
wrought miracles before him he deceived them that had
received the mark of the beast, and them thed his image.
These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning wne.

19:21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat uorse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls
were fh their flesh.

20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having  the
bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.

20:2 And he laid h dragon, that old serpent, which is the
Devil, and Satan, and bound hiand years, 20:3 And cast him
into the bottomless pit, and shut him up,al upon him,
that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thou
should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given
unto thsaw the souls of them that were beheaded for the
witness of Jesus, andrd of God, and which had not
worshipped the beast, neither his image,  received his mark
upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they ligned
with Christ a thousand years.

20:5 But the rest of the dead livin until the thousand years
were finished. This is the first resurrectBlessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:
on sund death hath no power, but they shall be priests of
God and of Christ reign with him a thousand years.

20:7 And when the thousand years arSatan shall be loosed
out of his prison, 20:8 And shall go out to deceations which
are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to them
together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the
campints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down
from God out of hnd devoured them.

20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast intof fire
and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and rmented day and night for ever and ever.

20:11 And I saw a great whitand him that sat on it, from
whose face the earth and the heaven fled  there was found no
place for them.

20:12 And I saw the dead, small atand before God; and the
books were opened: and another book was opene the book of
life: and the dead were judged out of those things which en
in the books, according to their works.

20:13 And the sea gave up hich were in it; and death and
hell delivered up the dead which were i they were judged
every man according to their works.

20:14 And deathere cast into the lake of fire. This is the
second death.

20:15 And was not found written in the book of life was cast
into the lake of fird I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and
the firere passed away; and there was no more sea.

21:2 And I John saw the h, new Jerusalem, coming down from God
out of heaven, prepared as a bri for her husband.

21:3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven sayinghe
tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and thebe his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their
God.

d shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there
shall be no moreither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall
there be any more pain: for things are passed away.

21:5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behke all things
new.

And he said unto me, Write: for these words are trhful.

21:6 And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the
fountain of f life freely.

21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and his
God, and he shall be my son.

21:8 But the fearful, and unbelievinabominable, and
murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolatll
liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire an: which is the second death.

21:9 And there came unto me one of the ss which had the
seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked
saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb’s wife.

 he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high
mountain, and shat great city, the holy Jerusalem,
descending out of heaven from God, ing the glory of God: and
her light was like unto a stone most preciouike a jasper
stone, clear as crystal; 21:12 And had a wall great and had
twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written
the are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of
Israel: 21:13 O three gates; on the north three gates; on
the south three gates; and t three gates.

21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations,em the
names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

21:15 And he that tame had a golden reed to measure the
city, and the gates thereof, and tereof.

21:16 And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as largth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand
furlongs.
ngth and the breadth and the height of it are equal.

21:17 And he meawall thereof, an hundred and forty and four
cubits, according to the m man, that is, of the angel.

21:18 And the building of the wall of itper: and the city
was pure gold, like unto clear glass.

21:19 And thens of the wall of the city were garnished with
all manner of precious  first foundation was jasper; the
second, sapphire; the third, a chalcfourth, an emerald;
21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; thehrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a
chrysophe eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.

21:21 And the twelve twelve pearls: every several gate was
of one pearl: and the street o was pure gold, as it were
transparent glass.

21:22 And I saw no temp for the Lord God Almighty and the
Lamb are the temple of it.

21:23 Ay had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to
shine in it: for theod did lighten it, and the Lamb is the
light thereof.

21:24 And the nthem which are saved shall walk in the light
of it: and the kings of t bring their glory and honour into
it.

21:25 And the gates of it shalshut at all by day: for there
shall be no night there.

21:26 And theyng the glory and honour of the nations into
it.

21:27 And there shall enter into it any thing that
defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abor maketh a lie: but
they which are written in the Lamb’s book of lifnd he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal,
proceof the throne of God and of the Lamb.

22:2 In the midst of the streett, and on either side of the
river, was there the tree of life, which e manner of fruits,
and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves  were for
the healing of the nations.

22:3 And there shall be no morebut the throne of God and of
the Lamb shall be in it; and his servantserve him: 22:4 And
they shall see his face; and his name shall be in tads.

22:5 And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle,ight of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they
shall reer and ever.

22:6 And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful andthe
Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servings which must shortly be done.

22:7 Behold, I come quickly: blessedt keepeth the sayings of
the prophecy of this book.

22:8 And I John shings, and heard them. And when I had heard
and seen, I fell down to wore the feet of the angel which
shewed me these things.

22:9 Then saime, See thou do it not: for I am thy
fellowservant, and of thy brethreets, and of them which
keep the sayings of this book: worship God.

22saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of
this book: for s at hand.

22:11 He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he wilthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be
rill: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.

22:12 And, behold, Ikly; and my reward is with me, to give
every man according as his work
22:13 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and
22:14 Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have
ritree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city.

22:15ut are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and
murderers, and idolawhosoever loveth and maketh a lie.

22:16 I Jesus have sent mine angel unto you these things in
the churches. I am the root and the offsprin and the bright
and morning star.

22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth
say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let
him take the water of life freely.

22:18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the
prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God
shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: 22:19
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this
prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and
out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.

22:20 He wich testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.
Amen.

Even , Lord Jesus.

22:21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you al











End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The King James BibleD OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE KING JAMES BIBLE ***

***** Thisld be named 10.txt or 10.zip *****
This and all associated files of vats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/10/



Updatedill replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creatrks from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United right in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distri the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royecial rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this licenso
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
prPROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a rerademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless youpecific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this lying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly 
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
resea may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANh public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark linse, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE HE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUSE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promotingistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (aith this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works
 reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic woricate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the termicense and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease usinrn or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in yion.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of tnt, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paids set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registemark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electrby people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  Therethings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic worksout complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.here are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronf you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free futureonic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Litr PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collectiothe United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in ttates and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating dworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergved.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tf promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project m works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping theutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply withs of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its all Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with .D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governcan do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a consof change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of yoin addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copyingorming, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work oy other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representacerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the Uns.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg: The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
accefull Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever anya Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutappears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) id, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook ise of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsou may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Projec License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.idual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public s not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission ofright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in theates without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with g on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragrathrough 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Proberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  vidual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permisscopyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both para.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holitional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for a posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginhis work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project -tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thr any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do notplay, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or anyhis electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set fagraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms oect
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute tin any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary foing any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide ac
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other thVanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on al Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no  cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exportinor a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its originVanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the froject Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  ge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or dig any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
ar distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use ot Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use e your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Proerg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under thih to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty    must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     pre legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royals should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenby Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Infout donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationrovide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agreerms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require  to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physm
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
  t Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.Fl refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agr free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If youarge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or gros on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obsion in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive FoundMichael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contacdation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenbeeers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyrigh on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Projberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm elects, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcript, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defectiveged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damd by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES or the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, 
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electunder this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costsses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NERICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
N PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNERISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, NDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVOF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMEND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days og it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it ba
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If yo the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your wlanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective wct to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you receivedelectronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose toa second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a r the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limt of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is  you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PUF.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warrantixclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer ion set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicab agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum dis limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or bility of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remainings.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundationemark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreemey volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distributiot Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs an, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of ng which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Proerg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions tect Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Inbout the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is syno free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widey of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
pll walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide voluntehe
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tmd ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freelyfor generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archtion was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project m and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Lihive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Secti4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  I about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project  Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corrganized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax ex by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal taxation
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws ate's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melanirbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
thumerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 W Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Emailinks and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundationte and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact infor   Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Lihive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive e
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
incre number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distrimachine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment incldated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularlynt to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is co complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donation50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not unifoakes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and kh these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where  received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or dee status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.orgcannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not icitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting undonations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to dornational donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any stoncerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United .S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenbages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are acceptber of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card doo donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General n About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hriginator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronat could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced uted Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of voluntee

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
ell of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyris included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance witicular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has thsearch facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includeon about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the enberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBookso
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
